---
layout: post
title: "safe and sound"
date: 1999-10-13
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: letter
---


I am rewatching Hospital Playlist, the apartment where I stay in Seoul has Netflix subscription. Kim Jun-Wan always reminds me of you. Do you know that I still vividly remember the time when I just returned from Japan and gave you omiyage, you went downstair from your club's room. I remember the contrast, I asked myself, "when did he develop feelings for me?", because you seemed to be perfectly unbothered that day. I honestly don't remember how we became close back then. I had feelings for someone else, but I was also confused because I enjoyed spending time with you. I felt like I was cheating, both to God and to the person I had feelings for. I knew it was one-sided though, and it was mostly just a crush, I didn't communicate with him the way I did with you.<br>
<br>
Honestly, before you confessed your relationship with faith, I always knew. It was before ramadan, five years ago. I teased you why you did your prayer so quickly. Five years ago, the reason I ended it was because I felt like I cheated God. It was also the first time I had a very strange choking sensation on the chest. I didn't understand what it was. I said to my grandma, and she still remembers it, "I think I have a boyfriend". Yet, even since then, I couldn't abandon my conviction. I have always believed, "If I were going to give my love to someone, it would be for my future husband".<br>
<br>
Perhaps it was before returning to my hometown, we had this student organization group chat where I was the only female member. We often talked about relationships back then, we still have the group chat now but it has become quieter. That day after I asked you to meet me at the bakmi restaurant in Bandung, I said to them, "Yep, he is becoming more handsome now, but I can't, it doesn't feel right". I don't remember whether I had the choking sensation at the time. I enjoyed talking with you, otherwise we wouldn't go to the second restaurant. Isn't it hilarious, I still didn't know my feelings.<br>
<br>
It was 2023, I was doing my master's. Honestly, the first year of my master's was rough. I didn't have much friends, I was the only Indonesian student in my batch, and COVID restrictions were just lifted. At the time, I spent much of my time for studying. During holiday break, those memories about my parents would creep in. It has happened before when I was still in Bandung. I remember I was in so much pain and I was holding myself back from calling you. I was just staring at your LINE contact while crying. I was aware that by the time I hit the call button, there will be no way back. It wouldn't be right, because *you* are not supposed to be my anchor.<br>
<br>
Ever since I moved to Tokyo, those bad childhood memories keep reappearing. I still don't understand why, they just did, especially during holiday break. And then we met in 2024. I was home after two years. My parents seem to be doing well. Yet, Mom doesn't seem happy. I felt like I enjoyed spending time with you in Changi, but there was a little discomfort. I realized that this always happened whenever I left Indonesia. My nervous system is always in a very high alert whenever I am leaving Indonesia. That morning after we spent time for a while in Tokyo station, I felt the choking sensation again when I arrived in my dorm. I didn't understand what it was. I knew I felt happy, but why did I also feel like I was in danger. Hence, I was afraid to meet you again when you said you were in Tokyo. I wanted to avoid it.<br>
<br>
I couldn't ignore the nightmares and insomnia forever. Thus, I booked a session with an Islamic psychotherapist at the end of 2024. I always prefer Islamic approach because it feels more peaceful to me, though the other approach could help me and explain things well from scientific point of view. I don't like the other approach because it emphasizes too much on self-love, I wanted to forgive the pains and remove hatred from my heart. I think I am slowly arriving there.<br>
<br>
I spent half of the session crying in front of my therapist. I then talked with her about my memories. I could sense that she was quite shocked I have been carrying those memories my whole life. She recommended me to talk with Mom, so I did. Since then, Mom knew things about me she didn't. I thought she would be surprised that I went to a therapist, but she didn't, she asked about my condition and whether it helped me. It was the complete opposite reaction of what I expected. Then I asked you to have a video call with me. I knew I owed you an explanation, I felt like I was not good enough for you, I felt like I was not good enough for anyone, so I said to you that you deserve someone better than me. Since then, I started writing again. I remember years ago Mom used to write in her notes. Sometimes I would open her notes secretly and found painful writings, sometimes they are beautiful ones.<br>
<br>
Little did I know, writing has made my condition much better. It lets me process things easier. In a year, I rediscover myself. I love myself. During this time, I also realize that my feelings for you start bothering me. I didn't know that it was love. I needed to see you and understand my nervous system response again. Thus, I went to your place. I realize that it was love when I return to Tokyo, while I was in Shinkansen, it felt peaceful. I can feel the happiness and contentment for the first time, with someone I enjoy spending time with. I didn't have the choking sensation. I told you about my feelings not to expect a reciprocation but to tell the truth. I was ready to be rejected, unknowing how painful it would be.<br>
<br>
I didn't have a high hope though. I knew you would say yes somehow, because you always did. I felt like I was ready to love you and to be loved back. I never expect you to become someone else, knowing how much you care about me for five years is enough. Of course, I know your relationship with faith since the year before, but humans have both mind and heart. I love you, it was the truth in my heart.<br>
<br>
"Should it be this hard? They said it should be easy", I asked you that night. I wasn't really asking you, I was asking God. I wanted to say to Him, "I just want to give my love to him, why can't I cross the boundary?". <br>
<br>
And today, I realized, He loves you more than I ever could. For as much as love that I have in my heart for you, His love will be much bigger than mine. I can't compete with His love for you. And I hope that you can see His love for you someday.<br>