---
layout: post
title: "loving"
date: 1999-10-13
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: letter
---


It has been more than a month. I have been angry, devastated, depressed. Yet, everything that remains is love. I have loved, deeply. The love I did not know I have the capacity for. The kind of love I have never experienced before. People say that to love, is to accept the grief that comes with it.<br>
<br>
I am grateful that it is you. Among millions of people I met on this Earth, I am grateful that I met you.<br>
<br>
I realize that I am still growing, to be someone who brings peace into a loving home. I realize that I am not that person yet. They said that marriage amplifies things. I realize that my history still occupies a huge part of how I live, in which, if I am truly healed, it shouldn't be that much. Please bear with my childishness and the way I handled things. It was my first time.<br>
<br>
I realize that I haven't been able to bring you the kind of consistent peace everyone is talking about. Like you said, we should be a better person for the people we love. And perhaps, my motivation will turn towards becoming a good person for the people I love. Perhaps, it will not be just for surviving. I think I am starting to move there. I hope one day I will meet you there.<br>
<br>
I am starting to believe that love is not a fragile concept anymore. Perhaps, someday, I could finally see the kind of love as strong as The Prophet's affection towards Khadija.<br>
<br>
I want to gently push back when you said that you are not someone I am looking for, you are. I was disappointed that you did not see it. You should have given more credits to your own self, for the way you loved me. I am sorry I could not give back everything you gave me. I received everything you gave, and I am grateful for each one of them.<br>
<br>
I am sorry I did not ask about your insecurities. I thought it was not something concerning. I thought it was not related to how you feel about faith. I sincerely did not know that. When people say about insecurities, most of the time they bring my achievements or my education level or anything I do not think you need to feel insecure about. I am truly sorry, I should have asked, I should not leave you midway through your thoughts just to sleep.<br>
<br>
Do not believe my interpretation about Islam, I might be wrong, most of the time I am. Examine it, test it, prove it, ask the scholars about it. I love you because you are someone who thinks deeply. I am sorry I did not say it when you needed to hear it the most. And if you do find Him, my love, let Him enter your heart the way I let you enter mine, the way you let me enter yours.<br>
<br>
I wish you happiness more than us being together, I wish you find someone who makes you feel the kind of peace they are talking about, even though that person is not me. Thank you for saying it to me, I am saying it to you now in return. I did not understand how hard it must have been for you to say that.<br> 
<br>
Thank you for coming into my life. I love you, and those were the best birthday gifts I have ever received. And once again, my love, you are more than enough. I wish we could walk the same path forever, but you have your own path and I have mine.