---
layout: post
title: "Winning"
date: 2025-08-23
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---

I always thought that living alone in the woods would feel very liberating. I have had this thought for a while, probably since I was in high school. Perhaps because Java island is one of the densest islands in the world. Perhaps because I love quietness. I watched *Alone* show last night, season 1. I was chuckling throughout the first episode. Oh God, what was I thinking?! I imagined alone in the forest as; stacked books, a garden full of resources and flowers, a cozy cabin near a large pond, chickens and ducks on the backyard. Definitely very different from what I saw in the *Alone* show. I found myself crying when Alan came out as the longest survivor in the first season for staying almost 2 months, deciding to use the prize money for his parents, eldest son, and house. He was chatty throughout the whole show, and it made me reflect a lot.<br>
<br>
He said, "it is not a battle against others, it is a battle against myself". The definition of *winning* for every person is different. And it is true, Alan, all you need at the end of the day is *love*. The drama and everything in between are truly meaningless.<br>
<br>
When I was younger, I always looked forward to the end-of-semester days when the teachers announced the class ranking. As I entered high school, it felt less interesting. It did affect university admission, so it was still important. In university, though, I couldn't care less. I didn't even sign my name up to be ranked by the department. I was honestly surprised to see myself changed. Although the rank was also important for finding jobs and scholarships, I guess. Winning, now, is not about how much money I make, or how fancy the workplace I have.<br>
<br>
Winning, now, feels more on the inside.<br>
What makes me feel fulfilled,<br>
what makes me want to get up every day.<br>
And, it *is* a battle against myself.<br>
<br>
Like what Lucas said in the show, in the woods, every day is about procuring foods, foods are your paycheck. And when foods are not the problem anymore, you start to work on yourself, your relationships with the past, present, and future. It is where all emotions creep in. Much like my relationship with long holiday break, it gives me more time to deal with myself, the suppressed emotions.<br>
<br>
I had a dream about an old friend two days ago. I have a picture of us, probably taken when we were about 3 years old. We sat on a bench in the kitchen. Every now and then, I wonder how my friend is doing lately. This friend has helped to support her parents for quite some time now. While my other old friend has supported her family since the departure of her father. I miss them, and I couldn't find a word to describe how much I respect what they have been doing.<br>
<br>
And, *winning* surely sounds different now, more than ever.