---
layout: post
title: "Summer 2025: a memoir"
date: 2025-07-25
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---

I just finished my dinner, a ripe banana and a piece of roasted English muffin, sandwiched to a slice of cheese with honey and Ceres chocolate sprinkles topping. I usually eat this assortment for my breakfast lately. Since I went to the university today, I had a bit of time to whip up a pasta in the morning. This week's heat peaks at 37 degrees which I hope August won't top it to 40, the humidity is crazy too. I always check my weather app ever since I live in Japan, though the app doesn't seem to tell me useful predictions whenever I'm back home in Indonesia.<br>
<br>
I haven't been writing anything for the past two weeks and my hand feels rusty, I hesitate a lot while typing.<br>
<br>
We have a marine day that took place last weekend, giving me a chance to reconnect with friends and spend a whole day without working. Eight of us had a Sunday night fun at the nearby karaoke place. I was screaming at the top of my lungs while standing in front of the screen when *Shut Up and Dance* was played. I requested this song after Hozier's *Too Sweet*. These two are my must-sing-list every time we hit the karaoke place. Suddenly, I became a lead singer who held a fantastic concert with only seven audiences. I was Chris Martin and all my friends were front row concertgoers. The night was still young, yet I lost half of my energy. I ended up looking like a drunk lady when we're back home at around 1 am. I didn't even drink soda, I had a cup of hot chocolate!<br>
<br>
A day before, I went to a book sale in Shinjuku with a friend. Nothing caught my attention even after scanning over a dozen of boxes for an hour. In the end, ten minutes before the store closed, I was holding a non-fiction about the world after AI and was about to pay for it. Just 2 meters before the counter, I saw Jacinda Ardern's latest book, "A Different Kind of Power". I immediately told my friend to help me return the book that I was going to buy in exchange for Jacinda's. The book was actually sitting on my Amazon cart for weeks because the price cuts my pocket deeper than any other books that I purchased. When I saw the book standing there, I followed my instinct, "Whatever, I know I'm going to leave all those three books about cognitive biases to read this". And I was right. I can't stop reading it during the two hour commute for my summer internship. The book is filled with warmth that I occasionally tilt my head back to prevent my tears from falling in public. It reminds me a lot to the place where I grew up, the friends that I had, my grandpa, and my mom.<br>
<br>
I don't vividly recall how I spent the summer of 2024. Looking from old texts, I was writing my thesis. It turned out that I was still doing my experiment while writing my first chapter. In July 1st, I was bored, much like what I felt about a month ago when I thought, "This paper revision is driving me insane, I have been doing multiple revisions with weeks of redoing microstructural observation, it is super boring and frustrating". All without knowing that later I would be very proficient in operating the electron microscope, and that I would need to rewrite a whole new paper because we decided to have a joint paper with Oxford. Also, without knowing that I would see a summer internship job posting and submit an application anyway. Take a peek at my summer 2024 texts below.<br> 
<br>
*[2024/07/01, 15:41:53] ayukaryana: I'm bored*<br>
*[2024/07/01, 15:42:03] ayukaryana: Waiting for your vent*<br>
*[2024/07/01, 15:42:11] ayukaryana: In the middle of experiment*<br>
*[2024/07/01, 15:42:20] ayukaryana: My first chapter is finished*<br>
<br>
By the end of July, the time when I was supposed to submit the full thesis manuscript, I went crazytown and the following entries happened.<br>
<br>
*[2024/07/23, 18:03:55] ayukaryana: Are you over mcdreamy?*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 18:04:06] ayukaryana: It still stings when I read _______'s name*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 18:04:39] ayukaryana: And it's been more than 3 years*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:10:36] xxxxxx: How’s your thesis is it perfect*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:11:37] ayukaryana: Almost, waiting for measurement results at the end of the week*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:11:51] xxxxxx: When are you gonna submit it*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:12:09] ayukaryana: The deadline is in july 31st*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:12:26] ayukaryana: I'm writing the last chapter while doing experiments*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:12:39] xxxxxx: Lol*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:12:42] xxxxxx: Good*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:12:44] ayukaryana: Not too difficult to write but it's difficult to find the time*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:12:45] xxxxxx: Good one*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:13:13] ayukaryana: But i think i can finish it, the problem would be if my measurement results are bad*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:14:19] xxxxxx: Yeah that’s why it stings when you read his name*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:14:39] xxxxxx: It won’t if your measurement is goood*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:14:55] ayukaryana: True*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:15:20] xxxxxx: I mean last week you wanna marry a farmer and build a farm*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:19:11] ayukaryana: Ugh hormones*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:27:13] xxxxxx: You’re crazy*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:27:20] xxxxxx: And my life is screwed*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:27:26] xxxxxx: My career is screwed*<br>
*[2024/07/23, 19:34:18] ayukaryana: We're so screwed*<br>
<br>
Similar to the summer of 2025, this day a year ago, the heat was also the problem, the moment when all summer madness began.<br> 
<br>
*[2024/07/25, 20:30:44] xxxxxx: Which chapter are you on rn*<br>
*[2024/07/25, 20:31:27] ayukaryana: Second to last chapter, idk I got stuck because of the heat*<br>
*[2024/07/25, 20:31:36] ayukaryana: It's so damn hot today*<br>
<br>
That was the madness before I received an email that made my supervisor looked so sad in the office. To be fair, after knowing that my first fellowship application was rejected, with a grade similar to those of my undergraduate sport course grade, I cried for a week, during daily prayers and when I got home from school. It was too gloomy. I didn't want to have a career break. It seems a bit overly dramatic now, but the announcement was the hardest rejection I received that year after being rejected by several other opportunities. It was definitely worse than my first true heartbreak when I cried for three nights in a row. A week after the fellowship rejection, the last opportunity that I seized, another fellowship application to a different agency, was announced. I received a minimal feedback and congratulatory message. My supervisor immediately sent the following email.<br>
<br>
*"Dear Ayu-san,*<br>
*Congratulations!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"*<br>
<br>
Grateful is an understatement. If I didn't get the fellowship, it means that I would not continue my research and that I would drop out from graduate school, returning back home jobless. It also means that the risky move I made to reject my scholarship extension from master's to doctoral degree was partly idiotic, because I didn't prepare thoroughly. At the time, it felt like my world would collapse. My mom and dad's business went down because of the pandemic. Going home means that we are all screwed. Yet, the poorly executed decision braced myself to do more challenging stuffs later on.<br>
<br>
This summer, during the first few weeks of my internship, I was able to experience sleep deprivation again after a while. It humbled me. I mostly spent my two hour commute to read technical documentations and brainstorm ideas. Lately, I am able to use the commute fully to relax by reading non-fictions. I decided to take the internship because I haven't received an invitation letter to visit Oxford this summer. It means that I won't be able to present in the biggest meeting that I'm looking forward to in Porto. I was frustrated because rather than rejection to visit, they gave no news at all. However, later I understand that the work at Oxford is pretty much done. I don't need to do anything to continue the project except by writing a paper, my second first-author paper. I haven't published anything since starting the graduate school. Hence, this is a big job and I'm really nervous. I consulted to my supervisor and he said, "I know we can't draw general conclusions from this, but we can present the work as a case". Although I didn't write any papers for three years, I periodically published my research progress to conferences. This summer, I have five scheduled meetings, with the one in Porto was switched to a poster, and thus my absence won't matter much. And yet, a reseacher's progress is viewed by paper metrics, so I have nothing to defend myself with.<br>
<br>
In the winter of 2024, a researcher that I'm working with offered a research project with over 100 hours commitment. I was able to save more. I decided to treat myself a little by enjoying a brief holiday in Singapore and Indonesia. The work itself was somewhat demanding, with late night and weekend working hours, because I was juggling experiments in between. Later, I knew that the researcher is seizing her few years at the university before retirement. One night, she opened up and I couldn't stop tears from flowing down through my cold cheeks when I finally know that she has been battling cancer. We shed tears and hugged, she said to me, "It is okay, I am okay". I went home at around 10 pm and I couldn't help myself to stop the tears from falling even more intense when I entered my room. She is someone that makes Tokyo warmer and prettier.<br>
<br>
Looking back, I never had a period where I was doing nothing. Once, I had a very uneventful holiday break from the university, probably it was my freshman year, and I was bored to death. It is not because unemployment worries me (well of course it is), but because I feel like my limited time on Earth is too precious to be spent not doing meaningful things, a personal project at the very least is better than laying on the sofa for hours. I don't really enjoy going out, homebody is a lifelong condition. Most of the time, I see work as something that I contribute to society's progress, whether it is directly or indirectly. It is also an outlet to let myself experience numerous things I never tried, as a homebody.<br>
<br>
I think I am partly influenced by my mom. When I was a teenager, I never truly understood how she felt. I only know that she worked a lot since I was still very little. Both my parents are high school graduates. They didn't go to the same school, they met through a sport club. If I'm not mistaken, mom was majoring in administration and dad was in mechanical engineering. She has five brothers, three of them are of different mother. Grandpa married my mom's mother after his prior wife passed away. Grandpa was both an instrumentalist and a rice farmer. He played *rebab*, a traditional instrument similar to a violin, and belonged to a traditional musical ensemble group. His job was mostly done during the night, so he was always back just before dawn. When mom was an elementary school student, she worked as a nanny to help grandpa funding her study. She then lived with her grandma and took care of her while working there in middle school.<br>
<br>
Grandpa passed in 2016, when I was in high school. He was hospitalized multiple times, but he passed at home when he seemed to get much better. That day, I was in the boarding house and getting ready for school. I received a phone call and was picked up by a neighbor who used to take care of me when I was very little. That day, the forty five minutes ride from the city to my town felt like forever. I only have a single photo with grandpa, the one that I framed in my room at my parents' house. Nonetheless, I remember a lot of childhood memories with him, because my dad used to be a merchant who worked in another island when I was in elementary school. <br>
<br>
Dad would go back home once in a month. Mom and I would send him away at a nearby privately-owned bus company. He would pack the commodities with him inside the bus, leaving enough room for him and a few of his colleagues to sit. The journey would take days to be completed, from Surakarta in Central Java to Medan in Sumatra island. Sometimes, I wish that I could time travel and watch how my dad's days went when he lived in Medan. Until now, dad has a North Sumatra accent whenever he speaks Indonesian. Dad's business went well by the time I was in middle school. He became a wholesaler, supplying goods to his colleagues. At the time, grandpa's house was filled with kitchen appliances while our own house was filled with clothing for my mom's business. Dad also hired a person to sell his commodities in Medan. During busy season, our house was crowded with mom and dad's colleagues who pack the commodities to be sent to Medan. Sometimes, I lent a hand after school, but mom would immediately ask me to stop.<br>
<br>
Mom and dad always prioritized my education over other things. The most vivid memory to me is the moment when I should go to the Surakarta city education office to register my social science olympiad award for the high school application. I didn't know there was such procedure for registering an award. Fortunately, I saw my friends who were applying to the same school making photocopies of their certificates. I asked them what it was for. I immediately called home and dad was ready to take me to the city. We eventually did it an hour before the office closed. Dad and I laughed, hard, in front of the office after the registration finished. Apparently, there were some students who did it last minute, we were like, "It is right there, go go go!".<br>
<br>
It was an all-or-nothing moment. Without my certificate, I wouldn't be able to compete. The school I was going for was the best public school in the city. My middle school was out of the city, meaning that I was less prioritized compared to students from the city. The system put people like me in jeopardy. With the certificate, I could improve my national exam grade to at least a point higher. It was the only certificate that I possessed, while most of my friends had group awards from their club competitions. Every day, I would check my name going up and down from the rank, ensuring that my name stayed over the passing grade level and within the out-of-city students quota. If my name is pushed down too much, I should be ready to apply for a second school before the registration period ended. The stake was high, but I was relieved that I made it eventually. And it was partly because my dad was always there for me.<br>
<br>
Before becoming a teenager, I mostly spent my days to play football with male friends and play houses with female friends. I had a lot of both toy cars and stuffed animals. As far as I can remember, I enjoyed playing outside. My skin was very tan. I would go to the field under the burning sun to ride my bike. With my childhood friends, I did unforgivable crimes that I still carry until now. There were sugarcane plantations next to the field we used to play. We would scheme a scenario to cut three to five sugarcane stalks and rush our way out when the foreman was not around. We almost got caught once. We would later not do it again because we know that stealing is stealing, no matter how small it is.<br>
<br>
Other than playing with my friends, I sometimes joined grandpa to the rice field. He would take his Honda Astrea. Once, grandpa saw me fell to the mud and laughed. Most of the time, I would enjoy the breezy wind in the rice field, watching my grandpa from afar. He often took me to his favorite *Soto* stall after that, he is the one who turns *Soto bening* as my eternal comfort food. He often practiced to play *rebab* in the living room and I would listen to the melody while humming. Sometimes, I asked him to narrate stories about the period when Indonesia was colonized. He told me that he was very little when it happened. He ran to the *Lawu* mountain with other people to escape from the colonizers. The last memory that we exchanged was the moment when I read him the Quran at home. Mom and I did it alternately. It was the time after he was in and out of the hospital. When he was hospitalized, I participated in an exchange program selection to the United States. Although my English was terrible, I applied anyway. I realized that I could barely speak during the interview that was held in Semarang. When he was under the influence of anesthetic, he asked grandma, "Is Ayu in America now?". At that moment, I promised myself that I would learn to speak English well.<br>
<br>
I took a two week course in *Kampung Inggris* just before entering university. Mom let me take the train by myself for the first time. Although I was very sick the day I departed and had a fever when I arrived, I soon made new friends who took good care of me. We slept in a room full of about ten people. There were multiple matresses on the floor and a couple of cupboards in the corner. Every day after the morning prayer, we would start the dormitory routine to learn English vocabularies. After that, we attended several classes of our own choosing, I had four classes. The dormitory's rule was to always speak English anywhere anytime. If we slipped our tongue and spoke other languages, we should clean the toilet. One night, I had a dream in which I fully spoke English throughout the dream. This memory stays with me longer than I thought it would be. I have never attended a boarding school, but I imagine that the discipline it taught would be similar to my experience. My ability to speak English didn't change overnight, but the courses gave me bravery to speak more. During the graduation night, I had an English speech. When the audiences clapped, my heart raced so fast and I felt very alive. It felt similar to the day when I pitched a startup idea that I had during an exchange program in Japan five years ago. If grandpa is still alive, I want to show him the photos during those moments. I want to show him that even though I wasn't in America, I was living in one of my dreams.<br>
<br>
Mom was married right after she finished her high school. She was about to go to Jakarta, following two of her brothers before my dad proposed. She had me when she was about twenty years old. We do look like sisters rather than mother and daughter. She has always been a businesswoman, starting with clothing, then restaurant, and now beverages. I am always surprised by how well she can talk with people. She kept hundreds of contacts in her phone, a huge contrast to myself who only keeps a dozen. She started to work part time at the local government body and healthcare facility when I entered high school, with the work swallowing most of her time, yet generating much lower wage in comparison to her business income. She once said to me, "Not many people want to do the work that I do, especially with this rate of wage, but I love the work that I do for the people here". I always enjoy hearing her stories about the elderly at the clinic, the workshops at the local office, the surveys that she needs to fill by going to hundreds of houses, and the short vacation with her friends. I could see that she is much happier after she has this job. The one thing that I couldn't forget is the way she rode a motorbike with its seat full of clothes, all the way from *Klewer* traditional market in Surakarta to our house in Sragen. She did that when I was in elementary school. It helped my dad to build a family of one daughter not missing the education she wanted and needed.<br>
<br>
I could say that I was a relatively high maintenance kid in the neighborhood. I was the first to own a computer, but my friends and I would just use it to play Plants vs Zombie, Zuma, Feeding Frenzy, Solitaire, and Minesweeper. My parents didn't set up an internet at home, thus I only use the computer for school work or playing games. At the time, my math teacher was also my IT teacher. I enjoyed every *"experiment"* that we had in the computer lab, mostly about understanding how to type various fonts in Microsoft Word. Around fifth grade, I participated in a math olympiad where I went to a fancy boarding school, that was later demolished. From that moment on, I was very sure that I wanted to go there for middle school. Little did I know, the school only accepted boys. I was crushed, but not too crushed because for such a fancy school I would need to ask high tuition fee to my parents. Instead, I went to an acclaimed *International Standard School Pilot* in town. It was an accreditation given to some public schools. <br>
<br>
At that time, enrolling to a so-called *favorite* public schools required me to take written exams. I couldn't answer much of the essay questions. It was too difficult for me. Apparently, being one of the top students in the small village where I lived weren't enough. But perhaps, I wasn't alone, I did get accepted to the school. Or perhaps, I was lucky enough with my essay answers. My first day was very bad. I don't know anyone there and I had a surprise math exam that I couldn't answer. It was not because I didn't know how to answer it, but because the questions looked blurry. I think I cried when I got home because I received a bad grade for the first time. It was also the time when I know I had a myopia. Soon, I gradually made new friends, with some are still close to me until now. <br>
<br>
Dad always refused to take me to school with motorbike, except when I got up very late (which was almost never), or when he needed to go to the town. He told me, "I would never spoil you although you are my only child and daughter". Lame, dad. I would ride my bike from home at 5.30, put it at the bike deposit counter, then take the public transportation, an overloaded Suzuki Carry. The journey took about 30 minutes and I would arrive right in front of the school before 7 am. I made new friends from other schools in the town from this arrangement. I also got closer with some friends from my own school. Still, my two female best friends went to the nearby school, while my two male best friends went to school in town. This would later make us grow apart. We were practically inseparable, the five of us always studied together in my house every night. I always hangout with one of my female best friends whenever I'm home. Only three of us went to university. The boys are all married now. Two of us work in a factory near my hometown. One has very cute twins. Two of them had to work after they graduated high school.<br>
<br>
My other female best friend works in a garment factory. Her father passed soon after she graduated from high school. She has a little sister and her mom didn't work. She worked very hard to contribute to the family. We would catch up every holiday break that I had from the university, especially during *Ramadan*. The small village would light up until late night every *Ramadan*. We used to recite the Quran together after *taraweeh*. We would eat a lot of snacks to fuel our energy, with *siomay* becoming our favorite snack among all. My friends are smart students, with their own talent. Living in a village, I could clearly see how poverty repeatedly crushed young people's dreams. Or the talent that they would form if provided good education. I have a lot of juniors and seniors who were top of their classes but didn't pursue university education. Not because they didn't want to, but because their parents didn't have enough funding. Most of them now work in factories nearby. There is nothing wrong with working in factories, but if we look further ahead, they wasted their talents. Soon, a lot of factory workers would be replaced by robots, especially now that AI is coming at full speed. Industry IoT would be significantly accelerated with AI. Then, if that happens, where would my friends go?<br>
<br>
In kindergarten, the teacher often sent me for coloring competitions. I guess grandpa descended his artistic ability. I enjoyed every fine art class in school, I liked sketching. Perhaps, I should start doing it again. In elementary school, I participated in a lot of science competitions and one singing competition, with the latter ended up very wrong. When the teacher was auditioning for a singing contest, each student was asked to go in front of the class to sing any song. I picked Yovie and Nuno's *Janji Suci*, my uncle and aunt's favorite song. One thing that the teacher didn't calculate was how different my voice would be when I sang a song that matched my pitch versus national songs that are bright and motivational. My voice cracked in the middle of the contest. It was horrible, especially when the previous participants sang very well. I was very ashamed during the Monday ceremony where every single of my friends who were selected received awards, while I was just standing from afar trying to erase the horrible memory from my head. For me, Monday ceremony was the sacred time where I would recite The Preamble to the 1945 Constitution of the Republic of Indonesia. I was given a responsibility to do it for years, since fourth grade until middle school. Because of that, I accidentally memorized the content. It also made me see how the people before me fought for a freedom.<br>
<br>
I joined two clubs in high school, photography and science clubs. I was staying in a boarding house with other female students, some of them were my middle school friends. We sometimes went to the cinema after school. It was the first time I entered a cinema actually, as there is no cinema in town. I bet both my parents never go to a cinema. After I was allowed to have a motorbike license, I brought a motorbike to the boarding house and would go home every Friday evening. I would get back in early Monday morning. At the time, my dad saw the opportunity to pick me up every weekend while doing a business, selling fresh corns from a big traditional market in Surakarta to people in my hometown. I didn't need to go home by myself and I occasionally asked dad to treat me to a restaurant or *Wedang Ronde* stall. I would talk non-sense or sometimes bring up political issues during the car ride home. I liked the Monday morning ride where most of the time dad would take his motorbike instead of car due to the heavy morning traffic. I like how fast and how good he was in doing maneuvers. When I was little, I remember learning to ride a bike for the whole day, I fell too much, I got bruise everywhere and some of the scars remain. When I got a little older, I fell once with motorbike, my dad and I also fell once when I was in middle school. Luckily, it was a relatively slow day. The road from my town to the city is a big road for inter-province buses and trucks, and thus being slow would bother other drivers. With this, I grew to love riding motorbike, fast. Road always brings us together.<br>
<br>
For the first time in forever, I saw my dad fell sick. He was hospitalized. I was still an undergraduate student. It felt very strange that a strong man like him lying in a hospital bed. It took him quite long to recover. Since then, my mom became even more stronger. Right then, I understand what it means to be a woman and a wife, more than ever. My parents' marriage is not perfect, there were times when they had too many arguments and silent treatments when I was young. They married in their early twenties, with dad being five years older than mom. I also learned a lot of what could go wrong in a marriage from a very young age. It is honestly both torture and lessons. As I grow older, I understand more things that I didn't understand back then. It was never perfect, but I am beyond grateful that they gave me a perfect little life. A life that leads me to spend a summer of 2025 as a graduate school student pursuing her dreams.<br>
<br>
I want to write more about mom, but I guess it will be in a dedicated memoir of her. She recently said, "Why do you grow up so fast?". Mom, believe me, I am still that little girl who asked you to be quizzed for every exam. If heaven doesn't exist, then the world is too cruel, because you belong there.