---
layout: post
title: "new old home"
date: 2025-05-29
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---

It is cloudy, my weather app tells pouring rain tomorrow. I just cooked my recent-favorite meals, air-fried sardines and tomato egg-drop soup with seaweed. I have a very simple palate, my friends were surprised I didn’t enjoy Nasi Padang as much. I feel good today. I left the lab before 7 pm. My paper only needs a bit of polishing, though one of my samples cracked. I guess the solo-picnic plan this weekend is a no-show. Time is privilege. Lately my circadian rhythm has turned weird, though my insomnia seems healed. I had a terrible migraine yesterday until this morning. My experiment was bloody exhausting and I had a lot in mind. My friends were laughing because I said the startup ideas brainstorming overheated my brain. It did. I believe there is a bittersweetness, if that's a word, in things that make me feel most alive. I took iron supplement and decided to cool my head off by watching some comedies. I developed a unique taste in TV series recently, most of them don't entertain me enough. I found two recent Taiwanese series in Netflix, both of marriage reality theme, the most enjoyable. I love how talented the actors are in delivering emotions throughout the series. I casually shed tears at times. 
<br>
<br>
I went home after 6 months staying in Tokyo, which is unusual, I waited for 2 years before. I skipped two family gatherings during Eid holiday and suddenly most of my cousins are adults now. My father smiled brightly and kissed my forehead. My mother prayed for an additional thing during the *sungkeman* ritual, “May she finds a good man”. I was completely baffled. Whenever I talked about male friends, she was the first to say, “Focus on your study”. Perhaps, it is the very reason I haven't found the good one. You are supposed to laugh at this point. “What is with the additional wish?“, I asked. She said I am there, as if she could see me being ready. I guess, for a type of human who ensures being all-in to every commitment, it is not totally unfair. I did sign up for a pre-marriage class. In all fairness, the class is unique, it taught how to understand oneself, find the right person, align values and life purpose, personal finance, and the wedding preparation itself. The class is also highly logical and quite science-y. I brought home a list full of non-negotiables, nice-to-haves, and deal-breakers. My mother would hurt her stomach seeing my list, “Uh, excuse me, he must love a discussion of world’s events, politics, economy, and religion? Aren’t you a tech nerd?“. Yes, mother. Possessing this ability would melt my soul. I am the moderate nerd, let him be who he is. Someone said, “You scan fruits thoroughly before purchasing them, won’t you do the same for your life’s greatest gift?”. The person said enough.
<br>
<br>
I went to therapy for the first time in my life and cried my eyes out half of the session. In our second meeting, the therapist said that I don't need follow-up sessions anymore. I did my homework. One of my friends said it was such a weird feedback. You are supposed to chuckle a bit here. “There is no such thing as *being done in therapy*”, said my friend. Well, I bet I received an A+ for the homework. Life happens every day and my friend is not entirely wrong. Ah, life in the second-half of twenties. For some, I am in the golden age. For others, I am an ancient person born in the 19th century. It was only a year before millennium, they are too much. I was laughing like a hyena when a stranger said that I look like an undergraduate. Come on. He was not trying to hit on me. He only asked my contact politely. He was too young to understand my joy. 
<br>
<br>
Ah, a good man. Mother, I am overly used to live alone, being alone, do things alone. I am the whole definition of the *number one*. Was it last year, I feel like my life is finally settling down, a bit. I have a work and a purpose, a set of loyal friends, a nice room and a pack of fruits. Oh, a shelf full of books too. I occasionally run in the morning whenever my body feels heavy. I go to the nearest beach by myself. How lucky it is to live near a beach for someone who loves staring blankly at the ocean and blue sky. I do karaoke with friends whenever my work gets too stressful, screaming is a very effective exercise. My karaoke playlist? Bon Jovi’s *It’s My Life*, Hozier’s *Too Sweet*, Miley Cyrus's *Flowers*, One Direction’s *Steal My Girl*, a full list of Taylor Swift’s hits and lots of good ol' Indonesian songs. Yes, the karaoke place has one room available with international songs, how lucky indeed. My favorite time of the day is when I stayed over the working hours, ruling the entire student's room for myself, and singing out loud while writing my reports or doing any experiments. 
<br>
<br>
I met a very nice and friendly linguistics professor who is working on gender bias research. She often asks about my religion and we casually share perspectives before working. She loves to buy flowers, "Whenever you feel stressed, please look at those flowers", she reminded. She always makes a pot of hot tea, pouring my glass whenever it is half empty. She occasionally tells me that his two boys are growing too fast, one of them is starting to mind his hairstyle. I help her with book publishing, research articles, learning materials, coursework grading, and questionnaire distribution. Surprisingly, it was fun. Perhaps because the nature of the work hugely differs from mine. I found grading her students’ English exams the most satisfying, some of them are hilarious. I love the people here, grateful is an understatement. We have a monthly gathering in the form of Indonesian aunties’ culture; arisan. It is, no doubt, the day which I look forward to each month. We would start with foods—delicious foods, spinning a roulette of our names to choose who gets the money that month, then finishing the activity with a game of UNO.
<br>
<br>
It is 23:23 and the quality of this writing might have degraded. I will end this memento here. Ah yes, for you, yes you, you could be at the top of a mountain, or snorkeling deep in the ocean, or pulling an all-nighter, or sleeping deeply in your dream, or debating climate mitigation strategy, or sipping your second coffee in a café, or enjoying a breakfast while reading terrible headlines, or cooking a dinner, or writing a poem--I hope you are not, let me be the one who writes stuff. Wherever you are, keep going, you are doing good, *you haven’t found me yet*. I am not going to say sorry for taking a long time to get ready. The world would feel *much* more colorful when you finally found me, I promise that.