---
layout: post
title: "childish-ing"
date: 2026-05-27
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I was mellow on the way home, before getting my daily dose of Acai smoothie and French toast from Seven Eleven. Those two are always out of stock during lunchtime, and now I know the trick, 10 pm! I lost my appetite, which I rarely do! One thing I learn more about myself is that my body reacts faster than my mind and heart. It is understandable, considering how the trauma shaped my nervous system. My tears have been falling, controllably, in the middle of experiments. It's a relief that nobody saw *that*. And now I want to curse, so bad, by screaming on top of a building. Fluff him for making me feel all these things and being so vulnerable! FLUFF HIM! FLUFF FLUFF FLUFF!!!<br>
<br>
And why did I just find out about Acai when I was there, out of all places! It makes me crazy, why why why why why!? It should have been next to a beach or something, while reading a poem, looking at beautiful sea. It should have been like that! Why is it that I bought it the first time while I was there, before leaving him, why?! When I was sobbing about a month ago, I even associated my favorite shirt, my Hermione Granger shirt, with the time I spent with him. Why did I wear my favorite shirt that day? WHY WHY WHY?<br>
<br>
I've been listening to a lot of rock cover songs by Our Last Night, with almost full volume. I want to scream, that bad! I have *That's So True*, *Numb Little Bug*, *Man I need*, and *Anti-Hero*. I need to run again, desperately.<br>
<br>
Alright, I'm off to bed, but fluff him, fluff! I don't want to humanize him now, whatever, FLUFF!