---
layout: post
title: "a different kind of intelligence"
date: 2026-07-08
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


Lately I have been wondering about the concept of PhD defense. I question the intellectual humility in that, and whether by defending something which is imperfect and contains flaws is morally sound. Suppose I did a tough experiment, I spent hundred hours for it. Nonetheless, the results turned out to be unnecessary. When I defend the PhD dissertation, am I supposed to say that my efforts should be taken into consideration? When we all know that the committee appreciate tangible results, science is materialistic after all. Would my sweat and tears be taken into consideration? I would probably be deemed unprofessional during the defense if I brought up the intangible qualities.<br>
<br>
I also learn more about tenderness lately. I had always been a Cristina Yang my whole life, but I guess my encounter with him reveals some parts of me that were always there. "I think I might be Meredith Grey all along", I said to Zahrah. It is funny because we changed roles somehow. Of course, we are not *literally* them, but we always thought that she is Grey and I am Yang. Huh, life is indeed funny. Oh, this reminds me of the book I bring here in Seoul, it is such a difficult book to read because I need to re-read some chapters more than twice to fully grasp the meaning. The book is titled *Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ*, by Daniel Goleman. I bought the book about six months ago perhaps. It helps me understand myself better. I found this good explanation of the heart and mind, where it is put as *rational thinking* and *emotional thinking*. I also realized that the book would disagree with John Lennox's differentiation between the right and left brain arguments. Ah, neuroscience is complex, Derek Shepherd is indeed McDreamy, haha.<br>
<br>
I read some parts of the book while I was waiting for my flight to Jeju. Yep, I brought a book when I am solo traveling. I thought I would read it at night because I would need something to read, it turned out I didn't. I spent every night writing a travel journal instead. I did read something interesting before my flight departed though. The book explained a project where the scientists attempted to recognize children's gift as early as possible, and cultivate their gift from such young age. They divide the gifts in five different areas, which I don't fully remember. As we know, the formal education measure intelligence based on IQ, which is a gift in logic. This measurement easily discards children who are immeasurable through this standard, when actually every child has their own gift to help them in life and succeed.<br>
<br>
Hence, when I found out that the Singaporean girl I met during my Jeju vacation said that she will take her master's in early childhood education, I asked her, is this even possible? Oh before that, I told her that she is very cool for considering the program. I mean, isn't it very cool to be able to understand children from such young age and help them become a wonderful adult? She said that the childhood education we have today is still far from that approach, that it is still the same anywhere. She said that if they can't read, it would be hard to teach them other things. It is an interesting take. I also asked her about teacher's mental health, as I have heard a lot that they are very prone to depression due to controlling parents. While I have never taught preschool children, I taught elementary school students for months after my bachelor's graduation. It was a side job while waiting for my master's degree commencement. And as much as I enjoyed and loved it, I felt utterly exhausted. I mean, how could they have so much energy?! "Isn't it the same everywhere?", she said, while I was mentioning that it is the case in Japan. I know about this from my Chinese professor I work with.<br>
<br>
I also heard from my Indonesian friend who resides in Singapore, I will also meet her in September, that Singaporean children have a lot of extracurricular activities. She takes a piano lesson, and she often meets elementary school children being excellent piano players. Although, if I correctly remember, she said that they found it just alright because there are children who can do better. It is depressing, I mean at such young age, how could they have that mindset? She also said that their schedule is so packed that they also have additional academic lesson between the extracurricular activities. Huh, I did most of my time playing with my friends or riding my bike back then. However, I was privileged that I felt like I did good in school, thus the typical education system benefited me. Looking back, my regret is actually looking at how smart my friends were but school didn't offer programs to cultivate their intelligence. I was quite good at language, and my language teachers somehow always happened to be very good at teaching and introducing literatures. I was not so bad at logic as well. Sometimes, I look at my friends and wonder where did the education fail them. My parents live in a village, and I grew up there for 12 years before moving schools into bigger city. It is natural to wonder that those friends who excelled at school would be struggling to get a job. Of course, job shortage contributed to the factors, but I also wonder whether their gifts were optimally cultivated through the education system offered back then. It is frustrating. Ah, and Nadiem Makarim is getting into a trouble because of stupid politics.<br>
<br>
Lately, perhaps because I was, for a moment, having a glimpse of what a married life would look like, I consumed homeschooling education contents. Again, this is not because I am ready nor do I want to have kids right away, but I like to prepare years in advance *if* I ever become a mother. If I do have a kid someday, I think I would consider homeschooling or perhaps something similar. I still would want my kid to have a lot of friends and get enough social interaction with friends, but I also want to develop a customized learning pathway depending on the gift they possess. While also making sure that they do not feel burden, instead they will look back and become grateful that they are given opportunities to try a lot of things. I hope if I do become a mother someday, I would become someone who gives the best childhood education my child deserves. Or, I could become a great aunt instead. Ah I need to read more books. I want to appreciate Mom here for giving me the best childhood education she could with her capacity back then. Thank you, Mom, I am forever grateful for your quizzes and for sitting next to me the night before every exam. And hey, of course, as you advised, I will finish my PhD and get a real job!