---
layout: post
title: "unseen reality"
date: 2026-07-11
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I like horror movies! I would often put my palm in front of my eyes to peek when the music begins to sound creepy. I wonder if there are any horror action movies though, that sounds fun, two of my favorite genres in one film.<br>
<br>
Ever since I was little, I have had a lot of weird experiences related to unseen beings. Perhaps the first time was the bird and the snakes. My parents bought this beautiful bird when I was a kid. Before its death, our house often had a lot of snakes. It was weird because our house is not in an area where there snakes are common. And yet, there would be snakes everywhere. Thus, even until now, the animal that scares me the most is snake. After the death of the white bird, I remember that there were no snakes anymore in our house.<br>
<br>
I completely hate to be in the middle of this, but my parents were quite into supernatural things. It is the opposite of my faith's teaching, but I also acknowledge that my parents live in a small village in Java island.<br>
<br>
My middle school experiences also happened to be very creepy. In addition, I had one friend who was quite mystical. She is very fluent in traditional dances. She would do rituals at night in the school before performing the traditional dances. While I don't know what she did and its relation to what happened the next day, but a lot of people were possessed. The students believed that both events were connected. I am not sure what science calls this phenomenon, but it was extremely uncanny. I literally saw how the possession went from one person to another when the traditional dances were performed. It would look very clear in their eyes and dance moves. What did I do? I remember I would mind my own business while reciting ayatul kursi continuously. I would walk to my class, take my bag, walk to the traditional market where the angkot stop is, then go home. I wonder what my teachers did back then, because it happened more than once. Yeah, it was a mess. I wonder if the local newspapers covered it, perhaps they did.<br>
<br>
In high school, because I entered one of the student clubs where it unnecessarily asked the potential members to do something called *jerit malam*, there was creepy experience. However, I didn't experience creepy things myself at school back then. I did manufacture creepy experiences for the potential members after I enter the club, haha. Oh God forgive me. Why did high school students do those unnecessary things back then?! Perhaps it was better than unnecessarily yelling harsh things to the potential members though. What a weird culture.<br>
<br>
The weirdest thing that happened to me was seeing *kuntilanak* several minutes after I closed my eyes to sleep. I remember the experience vividly because it was surreal. I was studying with my friend, she sat next to me. I closed my eyes for a bit to take a rest. Suddenly, there was this being with very long black hair wearing a huge white clothing. I am grateful that the being didn't reveal its face. I would be forever in trauma if that was the case lol. I remember I couldn't wake up, I was so shocked. When I wake up, I screamed. My friend was startled because of the scream, "what happened?", she said. I told her I saw kuntilanak, and she said that I just slept for several minutes. I rushed to have wudu, then read the Qur'an back then.<br>
<br>
Ever since I entered university, nothing significant happened. Although, I often had sleep paralysis. I still did during my master's in Japan. I think those episodes happened mostly due to exhaustion. However, there were differences between true sleep paralysis and those with weird evil-spirit-like experiences. I do understand that science doesn't separate between these two, but what I am not convinced with scientific explanations. Why am I a researcher again? Haha. A typical exhaustion, in my experience, would have been something such as a very loud ring in the ear, or being hugged from the back, or being choked in the neck. If someone never experiences sleep paralysis, these would have been surprising already, but for me, they are not very surprising anymore. Although, of course, it feels scary. I always recite ayatul kursi and *God is Great* whenever it happens. However, the scariest sleep paralysis would be the one with very clear voices of unseen beings. I could listen, very vividly, how they sound and how fast those words were said. I don't understand what the sayings are, but it doesn't sound good, it sounds extremely creepy.<br>
<br>
Another creepy experience that I enjoyed was going to *reog* show after Eid celebration with my cousins. It is ironic, I know, although I don't feel like it darkened my soul. But hey, I can't physically observe my heart, can I? It is somehow as if seeing devils in action hahaha. Some people would be possessed by *animal spirit*?! They would eat raw leaves or so. They run to people who wear anything red as well. I acknowledge that I think there is a prohibitive ruling to torture oneself, or to let oneself to be possessed by evil spirit. I mean, even without religious ruling, the actions of hurting oneself are already bad enough. Oh God forgive me.<br> 
<br>
Yet, I think the most creepy experience was witnessed by Mom. It was about two years ago perhaps. By whatever reason I don't understand, Dad brought home *keris*, without Mom knowing. I think it was powerful enough that Mom would be visited by creepy beings every Thursday night. As she narrated the story, those beings were about to kill her whenever she starts to sleep. Since it became weirder over time, Mom finally told Dad about her experience. Mom found out about the *keris*, then Dad got rid of them periodically. You know what is funny? As an outside observer, we could understand those things are unreasonable, but Mom told me that Dad didn't seem to be in his right mind when it happened. After those *keris* were returned, those beings didn't visit Mom again. I mean, why in the world did my father bring creepy things home?! Yep, it was because of his friends. I wish Dad has different friends, I think he does now. Oh Daddy, come on now.<br>
<br>
While there is no clear cut on human experiences, these things happen. I still experience a lot of weird sleep paralysis until now. Perhaps because I grew up in a scary house, that the evil spirits somehow *tagged* me, lol. Ah come on, Mom and Dad, why did you both go to *spiritual teachers* back then?! And yet, it strengthens my faith somehow. It helps me understand how my faith teaches the unseen dimension, and I realize that these experiences are valuable. 