---
layout: post
title: "our imaginary past"
date: 2026-06-09
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I began the morning with watching something good to laugh about, and I found out that Clarkson's Farm season 5 is here!!! I watched the first episode and Jeremy just had a concerning heart condition, oh poor Jeremy. They built a bonfire with Keir Starmer on top, such a Clarkson's Farm thing to do. It is crazy that the UK raised inheritance tax percentage, which is meant to tax the rich, but end up affecting almost all farmers. I guess government does the same government thing anywhere. See, this is what you are missing. When I said *I want you*, I meant that I want to *share* my full life with you. And I also want to be a *witness* of your presence in this world, and the next. Our life would become much more colorful when we share it :) Oh oh, I made my usual garlic shrimp dish for brunch. You are missing this too!<br>
<br>
I went to the lab after dhuhr and revise my research visit proposal, again. Ah, this thing needs to stop. I then took my VISA in the late afternoon, yay! It turned out that the new agent is much cheaper than the previous one I had, I should've been more thorough. Oh you need to know that I am budgeting my research *and* personal expenses. I told you that I do spreadsheet once every month or every two months. See, where will you find someone like me?! I will do your budgeting that you will feel like you are being audited every month. I believe you are not that type of men who like to collect figures, are you? You would be very much in trouble if that's the case.<br>
<br>
Since I was already in the middle of Tokyo, I was wondering whether I should go to Kasai Rinkai Park again. To be fair, my chest felt heavier in the afternoon *while* revising the research visit proposal. I also cried, again, during dhuhr. I know, I can't help it. So, there I was with the someone-keeps-poking-my-chest sensation. I decided to take another 40 minutes ride to Kasai Rinkai Park. You know what I found on the way to the park? Hydrangea! It is hydrangea season and they are very pretty!!! The park was quiet during the weekdays as usual. I went to my favorite spot on the left side where I could see the Cinderella Castle in Tokyo Disneyland from afar. What a way to see the castle. Do you remember? You tore *the castle* brick by brick.<br>
<br>
As I sat on the rock pavement, I saw a fish doing a very fish thing at dusk. It jumped from the sea! It was so cute I could die!!! They were doing a tournament and I was the referee. One fish did it *six* times! I mean, that fish is clearly an over-achiever. It did bring me an immense joy. I sat there for a while, listening to the birds, the ocean waves, the noisy planes heading back and forth. I looked at the sky, it was beautifully cloudy. I asked God, "O Allah, how is this so beautiful? If the world is this beautiful, what would Jannah look like?". I am happy that your mother is there with Him, being provided for.<br>
<br>
My love, do you really believe that this world, the temporary world that we share with Trump, is the end?<br>
My love, if we could be together forever, don't you want that to happen?<br>
My love, if there is a way where I can meet your mom, wouldn't that be beautiful?<br>
<br>
I did my maghrib on a bench in the park. I was looking for a quiet and clean space, but I saw a man doing a very disturbing thing publicly! Well, I did not look, but at a glance, he seemed like he was disgracing himself. Hence, I walk away quickly, as quick as I could without making it a big deal. I found a good spot in the park and prayed there quietly. I then continued my walk to the right side of the beach. There were more people there, I was always alone in the rock pavement on the left side. I sat on a bench for a while. Then I remember that conversation when you brought up your insecurities. While I *did not* know what it was then, I can understand it now; how you must have felt when I said that I want to do hajj, or when I said that I try to read the Quran daily now.<br>
<br>
My love, we all have our own insecurities and history. What I like about Islam is that, it offers a beautiful way to see hardships. When I was little, my Quran teacher taught me that every time I made a mistake while reading the Quran then repeating the words, it means that I will have double rewards. I mean, how is this fair? I want my double rewards too! Hehe. My love, this is one of the things that you will miss, you won't listen to my voice reading the Quran next to you e-v-e-r-y single day (except during my period) for the rest of your life. My grandpa always asked me to read the Quran for him back then. There was a time, perhaps a year after he passed, where I wished I could go to the afterlife just to meet him. He rarely visits my dream recently and I miss him so much. He is the one I remember whenever I have my *Soto bening* in my hometown. I was always with him, in the rice field, when I was little. Yep, I have a considerable amount of falling-into-the-mud accident.<br>
<br>
My love, when I go to the Holy City, of course I want to go there with you. I want to say to God, "O Allah, this man right here is the reason I should wait for a quarter of a century, I am not complaining anymore". You need to know that there will be *a lot* of heartbreak when I marry someone. Of course, rejecting people is not a fun thing to do, but it is because *you* are special. My love, you said that you had a dream of me holding a fruit cake. I know that I enjoy baking and I uploaded a lot of these baked cakes, but what if, what if *I* am the gift? Now now, such a narcissist, right? I mean, of course you deserve an awesome woman out there, not this child-like creature who write pages of essay and get jealous over a *"beliau"* honorific, but what if, my love. I mean, *have you met me*? Do you not remember how hard it was for you to reach this far? Do you think *I* will let anyone enter the castle, now that it's under your conquest? Nah, nah, nah, my love, the castle is being rebuilt and upgraded, you add your whole damn knights around it!<br>
<br>
You said that you would really hate yourself if I stray from my path. And yet, respectfully, my love, once again, *have you met me*? Don't you think it would happen otherwise? I mean, you watched a whole season of Hospital Playlist because I told you it was good. Do you think that I will not carefully play with your hair and wake you up in the middle of the night to pray tahajjud? Do you think *I* will not do that? You see, my love, my faith is a *huge* part of how I grew up. It was a very beautiful childhood too. I did not understand the things I understand now back then. I had this very kind Quran teacher. Now, he often appears in my dream whenever my salah is soul-less, whenever my attention is somewhere else. He passed away while he was doing hajj in the Holy City, and I hope that he rests in the best place up there. I also acknowledge that I did bring my uncle and my friend to the table. However, you don't know who my Mom is, respectfully, *she* is not someone easily influenced by my Dad. Do you think *I* happen to be this way on my own? It is all thanks to her and my lovely neighborhood. Oh and of course, the friends I meet from middle school up to now.<br>
<br>
My love, imagine this one, if we have a son or a daughter, well a cat can't be included in this scenario unfortunately, how do you think we will raise them? *You* will raise them with your logical approach, *I* will raise them with my meaning-making approach. Argh, I do not even have the best word for it haha. My love, do you not see how equipped they will be when they face this world? But let us take a deep breath here, I don't want kids right now, I am not ready, I *am* a kid, sometimes.<br>
<br>
I know that insecurities are not something we can bargain. Don't you remember last year when I asked you to let me go? I was *extremely* insecure of how my history shaped me, I still am, but in a slightly lesser amount. My love, I do not ask you to be a spiritual leader, your responsibility is to become a *qawwam*, a caretaker, a protector, a guardian. Do you not see those knights you brought to the castle? I mean, how many are they, why did you bring countless of them?!<br>
<br>
My love, don't you ever underestimate your ability to think, do you think this religion will make you someone different? The Prophet said that it is *perfecting* a good character, not building a new person. My love, with your ability to think deeply, do you think it will be hard for you to learn the religion? I doubt that very much. They are just new information, my love. Imagine that when I get swayed by baseless arguments people making about the religion, then you are reminding me because my route is flawed, imagine how much that would help us to live a better life, together.<br>
<br>
My love, as I said to you, I will help you to think a different perspective, not the better one, but a different one. 