---
layout: post
title: "strayed"
date: 2026-07-06
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I am about to leave the island. It is sunny today, the temperature is hotter. I am grateful that my trip was in a moody weather. My flight is at 9.50. I secured the omiyage in hand. I just had the Jeju Hallabong hot tea, it was sweet. Last November when I left Yogyakarta, I found out that having a warm drink before flight helped me with the strange nervous system response whenever leaving Indonesia. Do you know that the Hallabong orange is genetically modified? It has this cute bump on the top. I am proud of myself that I was able to do a solo travel again. I only have one backpack and one totebag, I planned the itinerary quite flexibly. I exercised a lot, spent time in my thoughts a lot. There are 27 Olle trails in Jeju. Eric said that people usually stay here for a month to hike all of them. Perhaps, I should do that for my PhD graduation trip. This trip reminds me of Cheryl Strayed’s journey in hiking the Pacific Crest Trail where she was processing the loss of her mother and her divorce. I haven't finished the book though, I wonder what she found at the end. As for me, I discovered a new part of myself I didn't realize.<br> 
<br>
I miss you.<br>
<br>
I met a lot of new people. There was this Singaporean girl that I become friends with. I think I will hangout with her again this September when I visit Singapore. There was this PhD student from India who studies in the US. He is doing computer vision for birds, interesting. There was also this boy who is studying in Malaysia. He was the youngest in the group, he asked us where we study. He remembers the Times Higher Education ranking, which is quite adorable. It reminds me of myself when I was his age. There was this American woman who's pursuing her master's while teaching English and teaching how to teach. She said to the boy, “Oh I don't even know that it is ranked 88. It doesn't matter. You only need to get a job that pays well in the end”. Somehow it reminds me of where I am now. My definition of success and prestige have changed significantly since I graduated from the bachelor’s degree. I always seized my opportunities to talk with various people regarding their career and life, from sensei, my manager, to random strangers I met. I always observe the same pattern. Perhaps I need to meet more people to see whether there is another pattern I overlooked.<br>
<br>
I still love you, but I need to keep going. I have an experiment after lunch, I hope I can catch the subway and bus on time. Ah, I also need to finish my paper submission next week. There are so many things to do, just like the month I spent waiting for your letter. I hope you don't feel uneasy for making me wait, I always have many things to do and you can always take your time. I will appreciate it more if you did tell me that you were processing though. I have never experienced anxiety because of someone, but I knew how it felt like recently. My life has always been big, I befriend a lot of people and I have a few best friends I love. Your presence widened my life, and your absence doesn't leave an empty space, because your presence was a gift. I wish you live your life well. I wish you walk your path without abandoning yourself on the way. I wish you see the way I see the world because it is a very beautiful world.