---
layout: post
title: "blooming"
date: 2026-06-01
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


The English essays that the students wrote made me chuckles, so much that my chest hurts again. How should I grade their essays fairly? I feel bad towards those with bad grades, but those with good grades deserve a fair scoring mechanism. Is this why God always emphasizes His mercy after stating scary things? Ah, their incorrect grammars would haunt my dream tonight.<br>
<br>
Mom called me yesterday, she almost never called me first. She always assumed that if I haven't answered her texts, I must have been too busy. I ignored her text because, for the first time in a while, I let myself to have an afternoon nap. "Are you in the lab again during the weekend?", "are you okay?". I was pretending to be fine, telling her how busy I am, I wasn't lying. Then I realized that my profile picture looked depressing, so I changed it to the Hibiscus flower picture I took this morning. When I came back in the afternoon, the Chinese professor asked, "Did you see the flower? It is blooming again after being dormant during the winter", while pouring cold barley tea in my little cup. At that moment, I remember how my life was several months ago. We would work together in the conference room, I would be helping her with linguistics research, easy computer stuff, or grading exam papers. She would occasionally look at my teacup, then pour more tea whenever it looks half empty. I feel like my mom is here, in Tokyo, whenever she is around. Perhaps, it was that weekend workday, she said that she just did a chemo. My tears suddenly broke and I couldn't stand up. We hugged and cried, she was the one reassuring me that she would get better.<br> 
<br>
I said to Mom, a week ago, that we ended things, not that it ever started. She sent me a tearful eye emoji (the one holding back tears), while praying for my wellbeing. I don't have the audacity to tell her anything, as she would know exactly how heartbroken I am. And I don't want her to get heartbroken because of me. I bet she already knew that, from the way I haven't called her in weeks. I imagine Dad would look at me with those sad eyes, without saying a single word. Or, Dad would have bought me ice cream right away when I ask. Dad always does that, doing things instead of telling me stuff. It reminds me of him.<br>
<br>
I kind of wish that I didn't send my last letters. Not because I am regretting it, but because it would be much more easier. He would remember me as someone selfish and controlling and manipulative. I should have let him remember me as that person. I also wish he doesn't know anything about me, so that he can act too cold, until the end. I wish the coldness would freeze my heart numb, that I don't feel anything. I wish I could say it firmly, like he said it, that we should part our ways. And that way, I would never wonder if we ever cross paths again in the future. God, You said You are the One who flips human's hearts, flip mine, make this feeling less heavy on the chest.<br>
<br>
I wish Mom didn't like him. I wish my friends said bad things about him, and hate him. I wish he treated me badly, so bad that I could only remember the bad things. I wish he was one of those flirty guys. I wish he didn't reciprocate my feelings. I wish he stopped the possibility five years ago. I wish my friends didn't say, "It is surprising to hear you talking about a guy, I thought it would be about research again". I wish my cousin didn't ask, "Is he the same person you called that night, years ago, in my house?". I wish it ended that night in Bandung when we moved to the second restaurant. I wish I didn't ask when his flight was, I wish I walked by myself in Changi. I wish I ignored his birthday messages. I wish I didn't unconsciously lie, "yes, I have", to avoid any matchmaking attempts when the nosy administrative staff asked whether I have a boyfriend. I wish I wasn't imagining a life with him. I wish I could skip this period until it doesn't hurt this much.<br>
<br>
And I wish my heart will bloom again, for my own self, for how I have lived and loved.