---
layout: post
title: "a final tribute to you"
date: 2026-07-14
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---

The weather was sunny, I dragged the 15 kg suitcase from my accommodation to the nearest bus stop. I took the 202 bus to Seoul station. I intentionally avoided subway because I wanted to enjoy Seoul for the last time, as it could be my last time. I carefully saw Seoul through the window; the palaces, the people, the traditional markets, the high rise buildings, the quiet neighborhood.<br>
<br>
I stood for 40 minutes, guarding my luggage from gliding, while listening to Simon Sinek's podcast. Simon invited a relationship expert. I was baffled midway, as he explained his theory on love. I haven't done a fact-check though. He said, framing from the evolutionary attraction theory, that people get attracted to those who show something we didn't receive from the less present caregiver. I think I have heard this somewhere. When I reflect back on my experiences, there is truth to that. I was mostly attracted to emotionally unavailable people, or those who seem out of reach. The expert said that, ironically, the qualities that make us attracted to them are the very thing we need for the relationship to flourish. Welp, are we all sabotaging ourselves then, because of survivalship consequences?<br>
<br>
If I correctly remember and deduce the information, the expert said that we will focus to our own needs. This is where the real relationship begins, when two people choose to stay and go through the work. He said that reframing gratitude matters profoundly. Instead of focusing on our unmet needs, reframing the relationship and our better half as a gift will shift the dynamics. When we focus on what we don't receive from our better half, we frame the relationship as something to complete us. It is as if being in a relationship will make us whole. Logically, this is interesting, because if both people focus more on giving what the other needs as gifts, then both cups will have overflowing water.<br>
<br>
I think the concept itself is not very difficult to grasp, but perhaps reality is messier than that.<br>
<br>
Simon also brought up about matchmaking. In a sense, with matchmaking, we reverse this survivalship tendency and we choose someone carefully. I wonder whether the theory is sound enough, and whether I did that, choosing someone instead of following my evolutionary response. He said, when we reverse it, we are doing all the work before jumping into the relationship. He said that the feelings come later. This somehow strengthens my understanding of Islamic courtship concept, it makes sense.<br>
<br>
When I look back, I fell for him much later, although there was an attraction to begin with. The feelings grew after years of seeing him through the circumstances he faced. I develop a deep respect after knowing his response to rejections. Some people react strongly to rejection, of course anyone would, but he didn't act as if his feelings were my responsibility. As someone who used to experience unreciprocated love, I share the understanding of what it means to carry our feelings to ourselves. At the same time, I also respect that he was brave enough to show his affection. I struggled with the latter.<br>
<br>
I remember, last year, I felt the ache of losing him. I was very afraid of hurting him because I didn't believe myself enough to care for a partner. I chose to *fix* myself. And of course, the fears were quite irrational, as it came from my past wounds. When we are in a relationship, we can hurt each other unintentionally. Hence, repairs are something to be continuously practiced in a healthy relationship. Although, of course, lines should be drawn for physical and emotional abuse.<br>
<br>
A year of understanding myself and trying to let him go expose how deep my feelings are. It is being loved after someone fully sees me, the storm and the darkness within me. It is being, for the first time, able to feel safe enough to let someone witnesses my past. And there was one thing we both did not know, the fact that I love him, the person I have witnessed for five years. Thus, I mustered my courage to tell him the truth.<br>
<br>
Still, I did it only at the end. Yet, it was after fully seeing him for the first time, his fears and his struggles. It is being able to finally become who he was to me last year. It is the yearning to walk beside him, and to celebrate every little thing we nurture for our future better selves on the way.<br>
<br>
I am proud of ourselves for choosing integrity over convenience, over the fear of losing each other, and for wanting the best for each other. I am proud of myself because I have chosen him, and that he is still the person I know. While I do not know how things will unfold, I hope that he knows how much it meant for me to say, *"I love you, choose you, believe in you"*.