---
layout: post
title: "refusing to feel numb"
date: 2026-06-08
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


My dream was ridiculous, someone was about to propose to me (I was very aware that it wasn't you), then Mom slapped him. It was hilarious. Then I woke up remembering you, again. Then my chest felt heavy, again. Oh come on now, body, cooperate for just one day! I cried, again, during salah. I know, let me count it again after it has passed three weeks. It is almost like Duolingo's streak now.<br>
<br>
So, I decide today that *I* will not put my feelings for you to rest! *You* can put it to rest, *I* am refusing that. I will love however I want, whenever I want! I do not want to suppress this feelings anymore, I have been doing that *for years*. It is so unfair that you get to express yours and when I have my part to express mine, the story already ends, it is *not* fair! However, I do not want to pressure you, do not want to bother you, do not want to slap you, hahaha. I do not want to pretend that I don't feel this.<br>
<br>
My chest surprisingly felt lighter, finally! I hope it feels much more lighter tomorrow. Although, I realized that my hormonal phase is peaking today, and probably that's why. I will most likely feel depressed in the next few days. I just realized that these hormonal changes have merits, I do not need to feel the flatness, ah I love being a woman! I wonder how men experience heartbreak, the internet said that it is quieter in men, and only kicks in later. And now I remember the last thing I said to you while I was there is, "Don't be sad that I am leaving". Why did I say that?! Why my last words are *that*!!! Well, I did not expect that the story would unfold like this, and I was teasing you, that's why.<br>
<br>
"O Allah, I will love him for so long, as long as I love him, and become a devout Muslim that when You look at me, You can't help but grant my wish", I am allowed to do this!!! Hahaha. I am sorry, my love. I want the best for you, I do, but I also want the best for myself, and I do not want anyone else, not now, at least not this year. I love you!<br>
<br>
I have a lot of things to do today, but I spent half of my day talking with AI about you, how ridiculous. Although, well, because the glovebox was in maintenance, I can't synthesize my samples today. Instead, I make my progress report presentation and revise the research visit proposal. Ah yes, this administrative thing, I hate this so much! The application has been rejected twice because apparently there are too many regulations I should follow. Oh, I forgot to tell you, I won't go to Poland, I will be staying in Seoul for three weeks from the end of June. Honestly, I don't really like Seoul, it's just another metropolitan city. I do want to explore other places in South Korea, though, I hope I have enough time to do that. Wait, why is this writing feels so flat, like a diary, it should have been more alive, like Mom slapping someone who's proposing me in my dream.<br>
<br>
Now, I want to complain about my jealousy. How could you call her, *beliau*?! I know that she matters a lot in your life, but you don't need to emphasize *that* in front of me. Imagine that night when we brought up the person I liked and I said, "he is my first love, it was beautiful" instead of jokingly cursing him. I *am* an aspiring writer, how do you think I will respond to the person I love calling someone he loved *beliau*! I don't even refer to Mom or Dad as beliau, beliau is when I am refering to my supervisors. I know I am unreasonable sometimes, this is my charm :) nah, I know you meant well, I know you respect her. I got it, I just want to complain, secretly.<br>
<br>
Oh, I want to talk about my favorite singer, Hozier. It is ridiculous that he doesn't get the Grammy! He wrote paradise-level poetic lyrics in his songs. I just realized that *From Eden* was written from the perspective of the devil. It feels sinful but it is very beautiful hahaha. I have always wanted to go to a karaoke with my future husband and sing songs I have been keeping secretly for him. Let's see, I have *I Was Made For Loving You* by Tori Kelly, *Tenerife Sea* by Ed Sheeran, *Sweet Nothing* and *You're In Love* by Taylor Swift, *Work Song* by Hozier, *About You* by The 1975, *So Easy (To Fall In Love)* and *I've Seen It* by Olivia Dean, *Lover Girl* by Laufey, I think the list is too long to be continued, so I will just stop here. See, this is what you are missing. Oh oh, and I also want to do a whole lot of K-drama marathon, I have *Our Beloved Summer* and *Yumi's Cells*. Come on, you are missing these too. You are missing *all that*. Yes, this is an attempt to get you back and I am not even ashamed! Of course, the LINE *accident* that happened today is much more embarrassing than the letters and the confession I made. Stupid LINE giving notification when the user has new friend! I mean, I know I am thinking about you, but LINE is *broadcasting* it :(<br>
<br>
For the last time, yes, my love, *you* are missing a lot of things here! Nah, I am kidding, you deserve all the good things without becoming someone else.