---
layout: post
title: "love 101"
date: 2026-07-21
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


Perhaps because I had never felt it. Perhaps because I always avoided it. Perhaps because I undermined what my friends said about it. Perhaps because I mostly saw the ugliness when I was a kid. Perhaps because the concept itself is too good to be true.<br>
<br>
The typical explanation that love fades, or that people remain in a marriage out of commitment, does not satisfy the reason why I want to marry someone. If love is such a fragile thing, why would I want to be in a marriage? And why would God spend some fractions of the Qur'an explaining marriage and family? It also doesn't fully explain what I feel. There must be a better explanation for it. Love should not be as fragile if almost every human being can relate to it.<br>
<br>
*What is love?*<br>
<br>
The Qur'an describes a very broad explanation of love. There are many stories of human love, not necessarily romantic love. The most explicit ayah about romantic love would be; *sakinah*, *mawaddah*, *rahmah*. Each translates to tranquility, deep affection, mercy, respectively.<br>
<br>
*"And of His signs is that He created for you from yourselves mates that you may find tranquility in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought."*<br>
<br>
Could these three aspects exist outside a marital bond? In the ayah itself, if the translation accurately captures the Arabic meaning, these three qualities can be theoretically found in a relationship between men and women.<br>
<br>
Tranquility is described as something to be found. But I think the more interesting aspects are the ones after the tranquility itself. I wonder whether the placement of tranquility before both affection and mercy means something more. Affection and mercy are described as something *placed* by God, it is as if humans can't manufacture both qualities. Since God gives both of these, it could also mean blessing and provision. I wonder whether this is why love, if we take the word *mawaddah* as the definition of love, feels irrational.<br>
<br>
I am honestly surprised that I feel like I experienced this ayah. The experience somehow disproves my suspicion on love itself. I didn't believe in love. It was such an abstract concept. Sure, I experienced love, but I mostly defined love as admiration and infatuation. Perhaps because I didn't experience the concept of *tranquility*. For me, it is such a difficult feeling to be found in other people. Well, it is not surprising since tranquility, for me, requires a deep trust and a willingness to risk getting hurt.<br>
<br>
Although, can we continously *find* tranquility in other? Someone can find tranquility during one fine period and a total opposite during difficult period. Perhaps, it means that tranquility is something to be continously cultivated. It is rather unreasonable to expect tranquility as a static concept rather than a dynamic one. It is as if expecting Obama to be POTUS forever. Of course, there will be a period when Trump takes over.<br>
<br>
If *sakinah* is something to be cultivated, then *mawaddah* and *rahmah* become necessary ingredients. Because if there are no affection and mercy anymore, isn't it easier to find tranquility elsewhere instead? Yet, both qualities are impossible to manufacture. In essence, if we reverse the order, we will get *sakinah* after experiencing *mawaddah* and *rahmah*. Perhaps, this is why the ayah says *and* instead of *then*. Nevertheless, I feel like the placement itself is incredible. It reminds me of those movies that depict true love being preceded by tranquility instead of infatuation. Or well, with movies nowadays, the order would be infatuation then tranquility. I guess attention span and cheap dopamine are ruining film industry haha.<br>
<br>
Now, if *mawaddah* and *rahmah* are blessing and provision, then God can easily take both, and vice versa. It also implies that we can't work our way toward it. We can try our best, but it is within the means of the provision itself. Again, explaining the irrationality of love, or *mawaddah*. Funny, it reminds me of unreciprocated love hahaha. Ah my poor heart.<br>
<br>
I wonder why we can't work our way toward *rahmah* either though. Could love mean both *mawaddah* and *rahmah*? In my experience, I found that once *mawaddah* sets in, it is as if *mercy* follows. Looking back, I think I experienced affection several times, but they were not followed by mercy somehow. I guess this is one of the reasons why the Qur'an was revealed in Arabic. Ah language is losing me again.<br>
<br>
Did I get the logic correctly? My brain hurts, I like it! What a very fascinating concept of love. I have never thought about it this way. Sure, hormones can do hormonal things, but it doesn't fully explain the complexity, is it?