---
layout: post
title: "my people"
date: 2026-06-23
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---



It is 9, I just came back from my conference. It was delightful!!! I met Eric finally! What a very kind guy, his talk was impressive and easy to follow. He is the kind of guy I would want to live with when I am in my late sixties, if I live that long though. My poster was nice, now I know how to correctly organize posters; avoid TMI. I tend to do that, explaining things that don't even need explanations. Zahrah called me a doormat hahaha, she often says mean things to make me sober, and I love her for that. I said to her, "I kind of like it somehow, it means that people get cleaned after me, jeez". I realized that the way Mom raised me has such a tremendous impact in how I view the world. I used to tell her, "Please mom, stop being such a positive person, it is very annoying". And yet, the more I become an adult, the more I understand what she taught. Intentions, however best we may have, no one knows them, but God. Oh talking about that, the hotel provides The New Testament! I was hoping to read The Old Testament, but I guess I will read this one tonight.<br>
<br>
I couldn't eat anything this morning, my head was buzzing, I didn't have enough sleep, my eyes were extremely puffy, my appetite was zero. I ate fruit jelly, the only thing easy enough to digest. I boarded the KTX with my nervous system being alarmed since my flight. How could I be this unstable because of someone?! Now I understand more why I need to end it. I listened to Al-Kahf during the one hour journey from Seoul to Daejeon, it is such a healing surah, alhamdulillah. I took my iron supplement and listened to two talks. My appetite returned after having lunch with sensei and my friend, yeah I definitely need to eat with someone. I didn't eat anything heavy though, I ordered a 29,000 won salad hahaha. It was soooooooooooooo good!!! It had olives, greens, potatoes, and octopus. I should try Korean Italian foods more! My head was alright after this lunch, my nervous system was calmer. I mean, of course it did, hahaha. Alhamdulillah.<br>
<br>
Oh right, I also met Kikuchi sensei again, "It has been a very long time", he said. We laughed. I clearly miss him! We had a Japanese soba noodle new-year-tradition lunch with his wife when I had a training at NIMS. It was lovely! I said, "I really want to continue the research, but I don't have time now, I am very sorry". I left the project halfway during my master's and the paper hasn't been published hahaha. If I could count how many papers I could publish from unfinished experiments that I did during my master's, I would have more than 3 now, *ka-ching* (sound effect). I met several people from research institutions during the reception, they said that the salary is low hahaha. It sounds like someone needs to reconsider her career path. Kyoto sounds good, it is close to Zahrah's place as well, hmm.<br>
<br>
How is it that I have such good friends, I love them sooooo much!!! I told them that now I know what I need. I told them that I need to stop being such a doormat hahaha. Fluff you trauma! I am a secure person, and I can still be kind. I need a man who doesn't keep score, a man who sees me and does not tolerate but celebrates me, a man who listens to my needs, a man who is truly safe for my nervous system. I do not even care if that man exists, I am happy on my own anyway. And I have my best friends!!! The kind of best friends that if I have a crush with someone and they like them, I would rather choose them than the crush. How is Allah so kind to me?! Alhamdulillah. Oh, they are waiting for my call hahaha. Au revoir!