---
layout: post
title: "trying to understand"
date: 2026-06-04
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I feel like I have been able to coexist with grief today. My chest was still heavy when I wake up, I still cried. I cried before I ate, on the way to school, on the elevator. I mean, how could I not? When I feed my brain with romantic songs. Of course it brings all the longing. Hence, I restart my day with listening to podcasts. It has been quite a long time. I like those with politics and economy. There are a lot of things that made me reflect. In the past week, my hormones partly influence how I process this separation. Now that it is becoming more stable, I could finally think clearer, before it becomes unstable again haha.<br>
<br>
I listened to Trevor Noah and Simon Sinek discussing about work culture. How do we define a terrible boss and a good boss? One of them argued that a terrible boss does not necessarily mean a terrible person. I found interesting argument in the comment section, where someone said that because work environment is a microcosm of society and people mostly spend more than half of their life in a workplace, the idea of separating between how one behaves in a workplace and one's character is absurd. They also discussed institutional purpose. With companies, their purpose is making profits, meaning that companies eventually follow values that resonate with the established purpose. However, there are also some nuance, one of them argued that bad companies will easily remove people when they are not in line with the established purpose anymore, which isn't true for good companies.<br>
<br>
Now, I would like to argue regarding the terrible boss argument. I notice that some people try to compartmentalize between two worlds, inside and outside workplace. However, what I regularly observe is that people, at the end of the day, can't do this compartmentalization. While I have never worked with a terrible boss, I have friends who struggle with this kind of boss. What I observe is that there will be more than one person who think that these terrible bosses are truly terrible. Although, this doesn't answer the question, is a terrible boss necessarily a bad person? After all, they are following the established company purpose. Then, what if the companies' purpose is not merely profits, what would happen? It would mean that a good company will shift this dynamics, and perhaps eliminating the existence of these terrible bosses. However, a bad person will most likely become a terrible boss, regardless what the company purpose is. Yet, are there really bad people on this Earth and the ISS? Aren't we all nuanced? I have grippled with the concept of psychopathy recently. After all, they have different physical architecture compared to regular people.<br>
<br>
How do we define a bad person? What makes us say that someone is bad, terrible? I think we all agree on the same things. When someone kills another person or takes something from other people, they are terrible people. This is why we have a law, law shows which behavior is unacceptable, it establishes a standard of reference. Yet, what if the terrible bosses don't kill people, or don't do things that are written as criminal acts in the standard reference? They can't be categorized as bad people, after all they are following the company purposes. This means that these terrible bosses can't face a trial when they *only* say rude comments, or being angry in the meetings, or intentionally hurt the subordinates' mental conditions. There is, though, a harrasment code of conduct. However, these bosses don't make them work overtime, or physically hurt them, or do anything that are measurable through the code of conduct. I also notice that, in the company where I work, the HR tries to assess people's wellbeing through a survey. While this attempt is good, this doesn't erase the impossibility of measuring the definition of a terrible boss. A terrible boss for me could be someone who doesn't emphatize, who doesn't put their shoes in mine. We all have a different definition of a terrible boss. Therefore, the question is, if these terrible bosses do terrible things, uncaught by human-made law, would it mean that they will be left without trial just like that? Will there be no justice at the end?<br>
<br>
Now, some people like me will insert theology argument here. It is a hopeful argument, but if *something* offers a justice in how people account for every single thing that they do, I will take it. If, at the end, I can not see the justice, at least I know that this *something* offers meaningful values.<br>
<br>
Huh, how did we go from terrible boss definition into theology? I guess my brain has been engaging with this topic all my life. And it is something I regret the most, that I haven't been able to ask, curiously, about these topics to the person I care about. Since we had mutual feelings, I was wondering whether bringing the topics would strengthen our bond, or instead weaken it. Feelings tend to amplify things, something that should have been neutral becoming sensitive. *What would happen if we gave curiosity a chance, an honest understanding a chance?* But well, all these couldn't happen if we already have preconceived assumptions towards each other. I have my own, he has his own. The question is how to remove all these assumptions, and for once, truly listen to each other? All my life, all I have seen is two people not being able to communicate with each other, and it is my deepest regret that somehow I repeat this in my own relationship. I should have listened more, I should have asked. While it has been final, I guess there is nothing I can do about it, except taking this experience into my future relationships with anyone, whether it is a colleague, a friend, or a partner.<br>
<br>
The question remains, how could people perfectly compartmentalize between life inside and outside of work? And the bigger question, how could secularism be perfectly implemented? This reminds me of Dr. Lang's argument. If God's existence present anywhere at anytime, the things we do inside and outside institutional framework can't be separated. I think I have heard about this particular argument where the Middle Eastern countries tend to take the *other* side of Islamic jurisprudence that the West often refers as unreasonability. In debates, I have heard Mehdi blaming the Middle East for their law system. And then, there was this other system that challenges secularism, where it is implemented in Southeast Asia, Malaysia if I'm not mistaken. I remember I downloaded the book a year ago. I think the author is a Malaysian, I need to check again. It *is* an interesting way to look at secularism though.<br>
<br>
I am grateful that I live in a society where I don't have difficulties in performing my prayers. In the lab, my supervisor and labmates kindly provide a big enough space for my prayer mat. In the office where I am working now, I am provided with a space in the emergency stockroom. I don't even need to ask, they saw my hijab and I was offered a place. Ah, I love my hijab. This morning, a muslim from Pakistan said salaam because she recognized my hijab.<br>
<br>
Now, the question is, if all of these *rules* are good for me, not because I know whether they are true or false, but because they make sense, would I follow it? Yes, I will. Would I ever prove whether they are true or not? Probably never, but I might be wrong.<br>
<br>
And I listened to a second podcast where Trevor was talking with a journalist. Of course, they are talking about politics and Trump. Oh, I should watch the *Pesta Babi* documentary now that I remember. Alright, let me end the decluttering here and continue the politics discussion tomorrow.