---
layout: post
title: "dark humor, a coping mechanism"
date: 2026-06-07
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I am *extremely* tired of crying. Yesterday, I sobbed at 11 PM in the lab like the 4-year-old me who desperately wanted to attend a preschool but was rejected. How ridiculous was it that I couldn't study (read: play with older kids) because I was too young?! Certainly, Mom was the one telling me this memory. She also told me that my forehead was bleeding because I hit a sharp tip on the wall. This happened while Dad was watching me, poor Dad getting scolded and feeling awful. This incident leaves a mark on my forehead, oh Harry Potter! (without Voldemort's presence). And I like to tease Dad about it because he will get sad and his face transition is hilarious. I hate the fact that my bad memories often distort those good memories I have with him. I love Dad, we always worked together to prank Mom. Mom and I will always start bickering when we live together for too long, it is a *sicentific theory* at this point. I think I should re-upload the deleted short memoir of them that I wrote last summer. Wait, what did I want to talk about? Oh right, crying, I cried *a lot* back then. I can't exactly remember the causes, either because I fell down from my bike (it happened too many times, I *love* riding my bike) or because Mom left me for work (she worked almost everyday). My bike! I still have the picture of me in kindergarten with my bike! <br>
<br>
Where was I? Oh right, crying. I cried again today, I know, I can't help it. I'm also starting to get tired of it, I tried to laugh it off. I mean, how ridiculous is it that someone like me fell in love with someone who can't fully believe in the existence of God? But also, *how could I not* when it is you? Nah, too poetic. It is still very funny though. Oh, yes, I am writing to you. I have thought about it, it should ideally bring relief to my mind, and perhaps I can reach that damn *acceptance* phase easier this way.<br>
<br> 
This morning, I was talking to Allah. How did I do it? I just let myself to utter the words. Sometimes, during salah, I can really feel His presence. Not in the sense that He is in front of me or anything like that, but He is looking at me. I mean, Allah even said Himself that He is closer than a jugular vein (not that it is a literal meaning). I said, after shedding tears and presenting my case that you are a good person, "O Allah, I really do not want to open this Quran and finding You saying scary things, I need Your mercy". I have never heard any explanations about Quran-based istikhara, but I often obtain guidance just by opening the Quran randomly. Well, it is not surprising because it is, after all, the word of God. Every single word is chosen in such a way that humans find guidance through it. Since now my purpose is relief, I was really hoping to read an ayah about His mercy. So, I opened it, and I found an ayah that said,<br>
<br>
*"Everything to do with this affair is in God's hands".*<br>
<br>
I mean, of course I happened to open that ayah because I already folded the page corner hahaha, but it offered a relief anyway. It is in surah Al-Imran. I continued to read several ayah after that particular ayah. It was the story when The Prophet lost his beloved uncle, Hamzah, in the battle of Uhud (FYI, this is a new information to me). I was moved by the immense suffering The Prophet must have endured. I mean, how many beloved people did The Prophet lose until that period? And then there was this ayah explaining about the martyrs not being dead. Allah said that, I quote and cut midway here, <br>
<br>
*"they are alive with Their Lord, well provided for".*<br>
<br>
The revelations of these ayah provided The Prophet a relief. It was a great loss, The Prophet's uncle was mutilated, and The Prophet covered his body with The Prophet's own cloak. I can't even imagine it. It did remind me of your mother again, and I also felt relief from this ayah. After reading this, I stumbled upon a youtube recommendation that happened to talk about this particular incident. Of course, I laughed, "O Allah stop it, I believe Your signs" hahaha. I mean, as if Meta can hack my eyes now. Or maybe they could, but I literally cover my laptop's camera with a bookmark (yes, I am that kind of person when it comes to privacy). Or maybe the satellite. Well, I don't know! I found my relief anyway, and it was enough.<br>
<br>
After this common dhuhr prayer occurrence, I graded some exam papers and went to the lab after 'asr. I listened to the Diary Of A CEO podcast where they interviewed an Oxford mathematician and Christian apologist John Lennox. He wrote *a lot* of books. The discussion is interesting, though I haven't finished the full podcast. I listened to it casually while synthesizing my samples. John brought up the AI concern and how some people establish AI cults. This one is very funny, come on! I mean, I *love* watching Alien movie franchise and its newest TV series, but come on people! John was citing Yuval Harari's work (I know his book but I haven't read it!), where it says that the next agenda for humans in the age of AI is reinventing physical death and manufacturing happines through scientific approach. Oh oh oh (in Trevor Noah's South African accent laugh). I mean, sometimes I can clearly see how people view me as delusional in my faith but this is mega delusional for me. Not because it can't happen, I am very sure that with the technology we posses and the development of AGI, it all could happen someday, but I find the idea very depressing. I mean, is it so hard to feel happiness? Sure, constant happiness is impossible without manufacturing its persistence, but how could someone appreciate life when there is only happiness? Will they manufacture suffering as well? Please laugh, this is me joking.<br>
<br>
They want to create a new god with AI-enhanced human form. This reminds me of the distinction between Synths, Cyborgs, and Hybrids in Alien series. Ah, John is concerned with the Hybrids. Like John, I am questioning whether an entity without consciousness can be regarded as a god, for however smart they might be, they do not experience how we experience life. Oh oh oh (summoning Trevor again). John also presented the brain argument. We know that the left brain is related to analytical and logical thinking while the right brain is associated with meaning and morality. He thinks that a true faith means intellectual holding coupled with the willingness to act on it. This is related to the argument presented in Dr. Lang's book. I took this from Google search, it said that John Lennox argues, "dismissing Christianity as purely emotional or illogical misses the depth of theology, while reducing humanity to mere physics and chemistry misses the broader purpose and meaning of reality". Huh, what a way to put faith description.<br>
<br>
On the way home, I was looking at the cloudy sky, asking Allah (with excitement), "I can believe through uncertainty, I don't need certainty that I will enter heaven just as Christianity promised it, I can believe through Your guidance". However, how do I know for certain? I mean, uncertainty is inconvenient. I hate it when my Eid holiday plan didn't happen, but my brain was also constructing meaning of why did I trip on a stair just several days before the flight. And now I know the answer. It wasn't like it was strictly planned, though I have the free will to act according to what I experienced. I was already bothered by my feelings to you, and then you texted me during Eid casually. I mean, it needed to stop or it would drive me insane. It already is, apparently. Wait a minute, I don't feel sad anymore now. Meh, I don't know what will happen tomorrow when I wake up. Where was I? Oh, the certainty question I asked to Allah on the way home.<br>
<br>
I opened the Quran again, randomly. I should have tried to search ayah regarding to specific matters next time, but well I like the surprise. I found surah Al-Jathiya, it describes the condition of people when they are resurrected, the word Al-Jathiya itself means kneeling, which is a posture of how people on the day of judgement is described. I laughed again as I read the surah. The third ayah immediately answered my question, <br>
<br>
*"There are signs in the heavens and the earth for those who believe: in the creation of you; in the creatures God scattered on earth, there are signs for people of sure faith; in the alternation of night and day, in the rain God provides, sending it down from the sky and reviving the dead earth with it, and in His shifting of the winds there are signs for those who use their reason"*. <br>
<br>
I was like, "O Allah, alright I believe". Now, if I think about it, each of these can be logically explained by physical laws that govern nature, all pointing toward nature itself, no God whatsoever. This is me using the left brain. Now, if I use my right brain, I would ask, "how do You decide which communities blessed with rain, how do You decide the scientifically unpredictable natural disasters, how do You decide which country Trump was born into?". And then I was laughing, again, in the next ayah, where Allah challenges me, <br>
<br>
*"They say, 'There is only our life in this world: we die, we live, nothing but time destroys us.' They have no knowledge of this; they only follow guesswork. Their only argument, when Our clear revelations are recited to them, is to say, 'Bring back our forefathers if what you say is true' "*. <br>
<br>
In which, if I think about it, it is true, all I do everyday in my experiemnts and all the scientists have done are merely guesswork. Remember, dark comedy is my coping mechanism.<br>
<br>
Right, it is already subuh time, I need to sleep to synthesize new samples tomorrow. I can understand why this discussion can easily elevate tension when feelings are involved. For me, I *like* the discussion because I genuinely appreciate intellectual exchange. I *love* it when my brain hurts after thinking too hard. This could be perceived very differently to other people when they are trying to understand faith seriously. And yet, I would regard this only for the sake of intellectual discussion and understanding different perspectives rather than winning an argument. I could see why you felt preached. And I am very sorry for that. Honestly, even before knowing about your relationship with faith, I have always been someone who has deep interest in faith discussion. You also know that I have had a lot of people asking me questions about my faith. I almost entered an Islamic boarding school back then, unfortunately Mom didn't agree. I was and am still very interested in faith discussion. Ah, and I happen to meet you and fall in love with you hahaha.<br>
<br>
O Allah, how do I make sense of this except by laughing it off? I am still *extremely* tired of crying. It has been two weeks. Alright, I need to sleep so that I can cry again tomorrow. I mean, at this point, Richard Dawkins might think that my eyes will start to evolve. Haha. Again, sorry, the comedic relief button is hard to turn off when it's already activated. Oh I need Zahrah to join the club, I miss hiking with her while laughing everything off. 