---
layout: post
title: "strong wind"
date: 2026-05-05
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


The sky is blue, the wind is so strong, that it reminds me of that day I met you. The wind has been like this for the past few days. As if the thought of you isn't enough to fill my head, my body has to endure the cold breeze whenever I'm outside. <br>
<br>
I spoke with Alya last night, four and half hour video call. We started from 21.30 when I was still working at the lab, until 2 in the morning. It is officially my longest phone record. Prior to the call, she said to me, "I have reflected a lot, and I want to share it with you". I love talking with her, though sometimes I have a hard time listening because she won't stop until I cut midway through. What I like about my friendship with her, and my other best friends, is that I can see how much they have grown. I feel empowered, seeing them spiraling, striving, growing, and embracing the hardships. In fact, I learn from them as well. I have this other friend, who contacts me whenever she is struggling. I didn't understand it before, but now I feel happier when she is not contacting me, because that means she finds something, a Higher Power, where she can truly land her problems to. I also feel happier when she's not around because that means she has been doing better.<br>
<br>
"My life was peaceful, uneventful, exciting at times, it is the life I feel content with, before he starts to stir something within me", I told Alya. As you can read from my previous posts within this past year, I was doing pretty well on my own. I don't need anyone to complete my life. I am well aware that the presence of another being will shift this equilibrium, this uneventful-and-exciting equilibrium that I love so much. And yet, a single sentence, "happy birthday", every damn year, from you, tears a castle I've built for a quarter of a decade, brick by brick. I loathed the very sentence that, by society standard, should make me feel happier for a day, once a year. Perhaps it is amplified by the fact that my dad often forgets about this very day, that should make my life feel a little more special. Perhaps because we always went to a roasted chicken restaurant on this very day every year when I was little. Perhaps because it isn't a special day anymore, and you make it as if it matters.<br>
<br>
I have never been big in celebrations. The one thing I remember from my high school graduation is someone putting a makeup on my face, and I looked worse than I normally was. My middle school graduation was probably the best one, I wore a salmon kebaya without makeup covering my face. I looked cute enough that I always smile whenever I look at the photograph. My supposedly first "big" graduation didn't happen due to the pandemic. To make it worse, my parents, for I don't care whatever reason they have, were in a fight that day. They didn't talk about it, they showed it. My mom was trying her best to put her smile on, my dad was trying his best to not leave the house as soon as he could. Me? I wasn't trying to do anything except looking at my screen and listening to people giving speeches. My lips were sealed shut, I was holding myself back from getting angry. After the "graduation" finished, we took a picture, I was trying my best to smile this time, because my best friend was coming to take our picture. Without her being there, I might have been leaving my parents, despite the kebaya I wore that day, and shut my bedroom door closed. Dad flew from the scene after the picture was taken, said he needed to go "somewhere". I took several more pictures with mom and my best friend, I smiled brightly.<br>
<br>
I had always been interested in people who didn't show their interest back in me. It is easy. I only need to feel my own feelings, then getting hurt on my own without minding theirs. Or, the other way around, I always rejected people who show interest in me. It is easy. I haven't invested much of my feelings on them, and they haven't spent meaningful memories with me. I have protected myself that way, over and over, for almost a quarter of a decade. Until you, until you came and tore every brick of that castle.<br>
<br>
I rejected you, didn't care about you, despised you, asked you to let me go. I have tried everything for five damn years. Yet, rather than throwing back what you received, you showed something my grandpa and mom taught me to do. Your kindness, your honesty, your perseverance. You made me reopen an old box, you provoked the unhealed wounds buried so deep for me to face, you turned my way back towards The Most Merciful. Not that you are the very reason I regained everything, it is my own will that led me back, but you were at the crossing, holding a sign so that I wouldn't read it wrong.<br>
<br>
And thus, I needed to step up. When I fell down on a stair, injured my ankle, terrified and cried myself to sleep, stayed on bed for a week, rescheduled the Eid holiday flight, watched a terrible movie with the worst ending one never asked for, brainstormed a decision tree, prayed istikhara three times, bought a Shinkansen ticket, read an ayah to keep one's chastity, I made my decision. I asked Allah for His protection. I did it imperfectly, but I did my best.<br>
<br>
*Do I have feelings for him?*, was the root. Is this all in my head? Do I have feelings for him because I manipulated myself? Do I still feel the choking sensation on my chest when I'm around him or after meeting him? Do I feel safe?<br>
<br>
*Yes*. It is not in my head. For the first time, I don't feel like I was choked. It felt peaceful and easy, I could even categorize it as happiness. I could finally open up, without the fear of being exposed and targeted. Can I finally trust someone?<br>
<br>
I had the worst insomnia. I had a lot of nightmares related to my parents. One time I woke up crying, not fully remembering what the dream was about. I always thought that all those suffering that mom experiences wouldn't happen if I didn't exist. I thought, if I didn't exist, my mom would finally be able to go anywhere she wants and do anything she could. Until I asked her that midnight, through a call, and she replied, "you are the best thing that happens in my life". I told her that I can't help but to hate dad even though I love him, and she said to me that dad loves me. I said that I'm now an adult, I don't need them to be together anymore, I understand it. She said that it is her test, her own responsibility because she chose dad even when grandpa disapproved them. That she accepts it, that it is within her capability for enduring the test.<br>
<br>
Trusting someone is not easy for me because the very person I should have seen to be trustworthy broke my trust, when I didn't fully understand what trust means. I saw the person I love the most stayed on a bed with a curtain closed and light off, losing her ability to do anything. I heard them fight so loud that I woke up and heard words a kid should never hear, then covered my face with a pillow and cried myself to sleep. I saw cuts on her wrist, blood on the floor, first aid box in the car. I didn't understand. I saw a woman coming to our house when dad was away for Jum'at prayer, asking for something, perhaps forgiveness from mom. She looked like she just did a terrible sin. I was staying in my room, pretending to not know anything. Her house is several houses away from ours, it is in the beginning of the street. That when I was getting older, I would hate to go back home because I have to pass in front of her house. Her kid was my best friend, I spent so much time playing football with him on their backyard when I was little. I try my best to never have a reason to talk with her until today. It seems like mom has forgiven her, though I don't know if mom has forgiven dad. Me? I don't know if I could ever forgive dad and her.<br>
<br>
Our life after this suffering wasn't easy. It has never been easy. When I was in middle school, my parents would have a lot of "cold war". I was their carrier pigeon. Mom would ask me to tell dad something, dad would pass his answer to me. Our house was more often cold than warm, except during Eid celebrations. I love our chaotic house with kids screaming and relatives meddling in our daily routine during Eid. I have always been grateful for being an only child, as I would never wish anyone went through what I experienced. Things began to get better when I was in high school. Perhaps because I was only home every weekend, so I wouldn't know what happened the rest of the week. And it gradually became easier when I entered university, as I was home only once every six months.<br>
<br>
She said to me, as I was weeping at 1 am on my dormitory bed in Tokyo, "what happens between me and your dad has nothing to do with you, it is our problems, not yours".<br>
<br>
And for the first time, I feel like I can breathe easier.<br>
<br>
I am not easy, my life has never been easy, but now I have stronger reason to live a purposeful life, despite the suffering. And don't get me wrong, it has never been this peaceful.<br>
<br>
So I told Alya, "I know if we don't work out, if he can't accept me for the person I am, with all my shortcomings and history, and if he doesn't share the same life foundation, I will be very sad. However, I know I will get better because I have God. It is him that I'm worried about, after all these years, if we don't work out, he doesn't have God to return to". 