---
layout: post
title: "homies"
date: 2026-07-18
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


It is Friday night. I haven't met my homies in four weeks. "It has been a while, let's have a dinner at Spice House if you guys are available", I texted in our student group chat. As usual, we enjoyed dinner and roasted each other. One of us finally landed an internship after six interviews in the same company, one decided to stay for a PhD and still applying for other programs in Europe, one is about to go to Portugal for a conference, one just had UNO with her supervisor and labmates. And I just returned from Seoul, missing from sight for weeks. This is not the complete gang though, some of us are not available. I think I will go to the nearby gym for running, my friend said it is only 200 yen an hour. I have wanted to jog after my ankle is fully recovered but it's just too damn hot outside.<br>
<br>
I will work during the long weekend as the glovebox was used by my juniors during the weekdays. Working on the weekend has its own perks. I like the feeling of being alone in the lab, listening to podcasts without earbuds, or doing a karaoke session. I have too much powder to synthesize though, I guess there is no need to go to the gym this week.<br>
<br>
I have not been able to wake up for subuh lately. For some reason, I've been sleeping so deeply that I don't even hear the blaring alarms I set. I hope I didn't wake my next door neighbor, we have such a strange relationship haha. We didn't know each other's names, but I think we know each other better than our friends. Jeez, this thin wall is killing us. He plays games almost daily and we both sleep around midnight. Sometimes, he seems to lower his *"game voice"* whenever I recite the Qur'an. While I often hear him playing games or having calls, I think he often hears my random singing and crying session too.<br>
<br>
Subuh is supposed to be this very intimate prayer to start my day. However, every summer, I struggle to do this. And the thing I hate is that the more I justify it, the less guilty I feel, and the dimmer my connection to Allah becomes. It is almost periodic, if I continue to justify this until fall, then I would usually feel easier to cross boundaries set by Allah. By winter, I would return through Ramadan. However, the very thing I hate most is the cycle itself. It feels as if I learn nothing every year. Is it supposed to be like this? Perhaps, it is not. Ramadan should have left me somewhere higher than where I began. If I had truly learned its wisdom, I shouldn't be fighting exactly the same battle every year. Likewise, my relationship with my menstrual cycle should have been the same. The struggle may return every month, but perhaps I should not be responding to it in exactly the same way.<br>
<br>
Ramadan, in my neighborhood, has been the best time of the year. It is the period where people gather to eat and pray together. It is the period where nights feel extremely serene. This year, we were able to have an almost full taraweeh session because there were more male students. I still miss what I had in the village where I lived though. We would recite the Qur'an every night together, but we don't do it here in Tokyo. I hope we can do that next year, as the new mosque just a station away will be opened. I think the best memory I had during my childhood was always integrated with Ramadan. I remember Dad and I would walk down the street together when I was little, I would ask silly questions or look up to the sky. The small mosque would be filled with a bunch of elderly from the neighborhood. I miss them, I hope they are well in the hereafter.