---
layout: post
title: "analog"
date: 2026-06-24
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---



It is 10 and I just arrived. Sensei did the most *oji-san* thing today by waving korean cash on the air to get a taxi hahahahahahahahahahah!!!!!! This is why I returned for my master's, and now PhD lol, of course he did! He said he was doing analog thing, while my friend and I were trying to get a taxi from an app, being a *digital* generation. Who won? Without doubt, him! Oh good God, it was so ridiculous and the most sensei thing possible.<br>
<br>
We had a conference dinner. Eric was with us! He sat next to me, doing the most grandpa thing possible, looking at the picture slides on the monitor while counting how many times his colleague appeared on the screen. Why am I so excited about a senior professor? I guess I always have this strange attachment with people who remind me of my grandpa. He has that vibe. I miss my grandpa sooooo much. Oh talking about grandpa, Yoshida-san said last week that he had a high fever. He looks almost exactly like my grandpa, from his face to his posture. I hope he is doing well. He always says that he is very tired whenever I see him in the afternoon. He almost always holds a mop or trashbags whenever I meet him before entering the lab.<br>
<br>
There was a typical dance performance, the most Korean conference thing. And again, they used "Like JENNIE" as one of the background songs. I have never been in any concerts, but I always accidentally attended one whenever I am here. Also, since I can understand Korean better than sensei and my friend, I can boast my language fluency!!! How petty lol. I love that my 10 years Korean drama education doesn't go to waste.<br>
<br>
What's the most exciting part? The conference kit!!! I got moss green totebag which is very functional and cute, I mean how could it have two outer pockets, one inner pocket for wallet, and a zipper, it is *p-e-r-f-e-c-t*! Since I told my friend that I love the color green, she asked me whether I want to swap my khaki umbrella with her teal one, of course I wanted to!!! I mean, it is t-e-a-l, what more could I ask?!<br>
<br>
The conference organizer also prepared a compact conference guidebook. It is very handy, unlike other conferences that gave bulky book. Sensei asked me in front of my junior, "how many times did you go to a conference?", while giggling. "I don't remember, too many hahaha!", the most accurate description of how I live as a graduate student, attending a dozen of conferences. Now now, I always have done my best work on them, not plagiarizing (*cough cough*). What is with those Indonesian students who attend conferences with tiny poster on A4 just to leave the venue and not properly disseminate their research. Jeez, shame on them!<br>
<br>
Oh, I also met a Russian student! She stopped at my poster yesterday, I went to hers today. She is working on superconducting switch, and it turned out that ion implantation could affect this switching characteristics. Very interesting indeed. I asked her, how I should call her, she said I could call her Sasha or Ayu, short from Alexandra. "We have the same name!!!", I was excited to know her. I said, "It has been a very long time since I meet a Russian! Nice to meet you". You know what hurts, scientists don't care about politics, we just want to do science, especially PhD students, we just want to share our research and graduate from this hell-hole! I was happy to see her smile brightly, because I could see clearly that she was hesitating. It is not fair to judge a person based on where they come from. Just like what I feel whenever I present in international conferences, I somehow feel like sometimes people sideline me because I look "different". Hence, I tried to celebrate her presence, that she was welcomed. I know exactly how it feels to feel small in the international community.<br>
<br>
Oh also, I met a new friend from the UK, she said hi because she saw me wearing my hijab. She is working in STFC (whoop whoop, sound effect). She is working on thin film coating for superconducting cavities, I wonder how difficult it must have been to grow or create thin film encapsulation for enclosed surface, that's a very hard problem unless they don't look for a perfection. It turned out that international research institutions work with each other to make one facility possible, in this case, it was for the linear accelerator in Fermilab. I asked her experience of working as an engineer in a research institution. I think now I have a clearer picture of the difference between *market demand* and *government funding* demand. Oh, there was also this guy from Russia who presented a very good visualization of Nb grains using magnetic imaging, I mean, w-o-w! Sensei was the one showing me his work. I feel like I need to improve my PhD research more and more whenever I see this kind of original work. But that's alright, I can always do that and I am doing that now!<br>
<br>
It is 11 and I am planning to go to an arboretum with my junior tomorrow, also the museum, and probably cafe hopping. Oh I tried a very weird peach smoothie today, it tasted like a shaved ice. But what can I do, Kim Woo Bin is the one recommending it. Annyeong!