---
layout: post
title: "lucky day"
date: 2026-07-04
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


The ocean view from my room is pretty. I can see the fishermen's boats from my room. They are lit brightly, looking like near stars. It was drizzling, but I was able to see a shy sunset. I was standing on the rock staircase in front of the guesthouse when the clouds began to disappear for a while and the sky turned orangish, “O Allah, You let me see the sunset, it is beautiful”.<br>
<br>
The fishermen remind me of Gwan Sik’s story in the *When Life Gives You Tangerine*. It is an extremely sad drama, I cried in every episode. Of course I did, I shed my tears when I saw the sunset. Zahrah was like, “Dude, you look like you have a honeymoon”. And I said, “Yeah, except I am alone and crying every night”, lol. The fishermen didn't even flinch when they have a bad day and go home empty-handed, I am ashamed. I am laying on a bed, being tired after my holiday trip. Hence, this is my motivation, I will work hard next week and upon my return to Tokyo. I have booked a measurement schedule at Science Tokyo on July 31st. Ah, I hope I could finish my powder preparation by then. Thank you, fishermen ahjussi, for your hard work. And now I am sad because I didn't finish my king-sized mackerel.<br>
<br>
Today I have a vegetable bibimbap, it was matcha-flavored although I didn't taste its matcha-ness. It was very good though. I feel very alive today. I met a lot of new people and I felt very energized. Huh, who knows, perhaps I am an extrovert all along. In the past year, I realized that I like spending time with people more than I thought. I think I have always been enjoying a sense of belonging. I was pretty active in the club and student organization, I still am. This is my first time having an arranged tour group, it was very enjoyable. We covered almost all of the Southwest part of the island. All of the destinations were natural landscape, so it was my habitat and that adds more points to me feeling more alive.<br>
<br>
We began with the 1100 meter Halla-san walk, it was very foggy. It reminded me of the Hakuba hike I did last autumn. I saw cute birds and a duck!!! The rocks were covered with lichen. Eric, our tour guide, especially emphasized that they are not moss. My biology has never been good, but it turned out that lichen is formed as a result of symbiotic partnership between fungus and alga. Huh, romantic. Nah, come on now.<br>
<br>
We continued with the hexagonal lava tube cliff. It is a very dramatic rock formation. Yeah, dramatic like my poetic side. The lava tube looks almost exactly like my samples under TEM observation. It is said that they are formed at 900°C, which is only 200°C hotter than my synthesis temperature. Eric said that all the volcanic sites are inactive in Jeju, making the island very safe. He later explained about the 4/3 incident, in which the memorial site is located in our next destination.<br>
<br>
It was a pretty waterfall, not as big as the Grojogan Sewu in Tawangmangu though. They do have another waterfall site where the water looked blue greenish, it was like a lighter shade of teal. This site has the hexagonal lava tube as well, and it only becomes a waterfall site after the rain. The moody site must have been so pretty in the rainy season. Talking about moody thing, the 4/3 incident which caused tensions between civilian and policemen in Jeju was resolved after the year of 2000, when the government finally acknowledged their mistakes and apologized. Well, there has been thousands of deaths. Government never fails to disappoint me. Come on, Mr. President, don't just apologize, do better. Look who is talking now, as if I have done something better after my apologies to you. I hope I do though. Right, I am writing to you again. This never gets old huh. Let's rewind the tape, they said I could always criticize without looking inward whenever it's about the government, haha. Oh Mr. President, I wish you a long and healthy life.<br>
<br>
We had a short one-hour hike after lunch. My ankle seems to be perfectly healed, though I had weird tingling last night. Perhaps it was the room, or the first day, I couldn't sleep. I was very alert, I could hear a pin drop. To be fair, the room felt quite ghost-y. It was too huge for one person and there were too many photographs in the room. I wasn't scared of people, rather I was scared of unseen beings, lol. I also notice that sometimes I can just feel it when something is off. Some places have that kind of energy I guess. It could be amplified with a first day feeling as well. I have this weird thing where I wouldn't be able to rest in a new environment, because my body is adjusting to a sense of safety. I realize lately that my nervous system acts faster than my brain could understand. I am solo traveling after a while, I guess that's why. Still, ghost. I had too many sightings back then, from possession (in some of my friends) to seeing one of them indirectly. Tonight is good though, the room is small enough and the fishermen are right in front of me, glimmering like near stars. I have some companions.<br>
<br>
Oh the weather was suddenly sunny during the hike. We also saw the dolphins!!! I was the one who asked Eric, “What are those?”, when there seems to be ripple in the ocean. “I think they're people swimming”, he replied. I wasn't sure because they had fins, “Are you sure, they look like fish”. He checked again and became very excited because they were dolphins, “We should buy lottery tonight, we are very lucky today!”. Hahaha we were indeed very lucky somehow. It wasn't raining although it was drizzling in the morning. The sky was cloudy and thus we had a natural shade. I am grateful for that. And again, how is He so kind to me?!<br>
<br>
I was dropped off in the airport since the guesthouse owner offered a free pick-up. It turned out that the owner's wife was the one picking me up. She is Vietnamese and her mom was with her! I didn't realize how good my Korean was until I met her and talked for the whole ride. She can't speak English so we communicated in Korean. She said that she has been here for 13 years and that Korean men are one of a kind. She was also complaining about how southeast Asian people are sidelined here. She said that my Korean is so good. I also talked to random haelmoni, ahjumma, and ahjussi I met on the street using Korean lately. I mean this is why I need to learn Japanese, to talk with random oba-san and oji-san I meet on the street!!! Alright, this is a better motivation than learning it for working in a company haha. Now if we were to count, I am almost fluent in four languages?! I guess Allah gave me an overflowing cup of language ability when I was created, look at me writing this long.<br>
<br>
It is almost midnight, I need to sleep and wake up early to see what the fishermen are doing in the dawn tomorrow. Since I am not sure which beach I would visit, I guess I will have a flexible day. Probably I will go to Hyeopjae in the afternoon though, then going back to downtown for souvenirs before my return on Monday morning. Alright, you were mentioned once, but I was narrating the story imagining that you sat in front of me dozing off. Good night fishermen ahjussi, hehe! Oh did you know, I told my male friend, who then confessed his feeling to me, that the phrase *good night* is romantic. Do you remember that you were the one saying it five years ago? He said *good night* to me after I casually mentioned this before his confession. He is a good friend and I wish him happiness, it was unreciprocated because I don't have feelings for him. Isn't it ridiculous that I still wasn't sure about my feelings to you back then? I guess because it was you, and I was afraid of facing the things I have ignored for almost two decades.