---
layout: post
title: "jukkumi and cryogenic man"
date: 2026-06-27
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---



I have been cafe hopping with my junior for the past three days. The best I had was blueberry smoothie and watermelon juice, oh and ube latte! I didn't understand why people like going to the cafe, but now I do, at least before I check my credit card statement haha. There is an authentic Korean halal restaurant next to our place, we tried stingray fish?! I thought it would be chewy but it has the soft bone texture of chicken and typical fish-like meat. The sauce, though, it was marinated in gochujang!!! Prof. Kim brought us to a Korean barbeque place, and the meat was.. better than rendang. Not your rendang, Mom, yours is still the best! We had authentic Korean halal *jukkumi* (baby octopus) and bulgogi today. The owner is Korean and it seems like the place was just opened. It was the best, I think I would visit the place again, though it was quite far in Yongsan.<br>
<br>
"How is our professor?", one of the students asked me. I said that he is nice, they said it didn't answer their questions. Sometimes, we do have questions we already have the answers of. They said that the bachelor students don't really interact with him face to face, they have online Zoom meetings instead. One of them described him, "he is a cryogenic man", lol. To be fair, from the time we spent together, he doesn't seem to be that way. About two years ago, he visited our lab and I was the one in charge of introducing our facilities to him. I asked some personal questions to understand him better. He was working in Samsung before switching career to academia. He said that he has more freedom working in academia, both freedom of research and freedom of time. His colleagues are now mostly in a very high career position, with incentives ten times of their salary, but he emphasized that they don't have time to enjoy their life.<br>
<br>
"He likes to play golf", said sensei when describing Prof. Kim. We went to the barbeque restaurant riding his Tesla. It was my first time, and good God the car has a very good computer vision! I wonder, though, if he compartmentalizes personal and professional life, just like several people that I know. I realized that sensei doesn't really do the compartmentalization, or I must say, he just be himself, and I guess I like the way he approaches teaching with it. He knows each of his students well, he takes care of them. He chats with his students, uhm, *drinks* with them. It is also true that sensei isn't married yet, while Prof. Kim is already married. It may contribute a bit to his mentorship dedication. Once again, we are all nuanced. The students probably only see one side of him as a professor with too many responsibilities, while sensei and I know him both when he is doing his job and when he had his sabbatical leave. Oh, yes, sabbatical leave, what a cool concept! A gap year for adult, haha.<br>
<br>
"I think it should start from small responsibilities. If one doesn't care about small things, how could one do big things like running a country?", she said. I was discussing about one of our professors in the department, who is now running a high position in the country, with my senior. We met in Singapore about a year ago and she was visiting her partner in Tokyo. When I was about to visit Singapore last spring, I texted her whether she would want to hangout and grab something, it turned out that my plan was rescheduled and she was the one visiting Tokyo instead. I didn't know that we would hit it off. We spent a day together, and just like that, I have a new good friend. The more I grow older, the more I appreciate direct interaction with old or new friends. Social media normalizes a passive friendship, where we feel like we know someone just by viewing their updates, when we really don't. I realized this when I deactivated my social media for months last year. When I reactivated my social media, it turned out that I don't miss any important things, because I swicthed the passive friendship into one-on-one interaction from texts or face-to-face. It was eye opening. Huh, I guess a lot of things did happen in 2025, from therapy to unbelievable politicians.<br>
<br>
I wrote something about a terrible person most likely will be a terrible boss, I take that back. I just realized, what if there exists institutional incentives? In that case, of course *any* terrible person would try to become a good boss. And yet, once again, do terrible people even exist? And I am wondering whether I agree with what my senior argued about small and big responsibilities. I do observe people a lot, I can understand body language and it is often a very powerful tool to understand humans. People can lie, but their body doesn't, except they are trained well, for instance the CIA. Oh, I once had a dream of becoming an analyst in a national intelligence organization, haha. Dad and I watched too many action movies back then, I still do though. I finished the entire seasons of *Chuck* about a year ago, yeah I was crazy.<br>
<br>
When we are looking at the bigger picture, everything seems easy. However, the bigger picture won't happen without every smallest thing done to achieve the big picture itself. If a professor doesn't really teach, which is a professor's responsibility, would the professor do a good job running a country? I remember this one time when I had a conference in Miyazaki. There was an American professor who needs to teach his students past midnight, due to timezone difference. He did it anyway, of course it was his responsibility, although he might say to his students that he was out of the country and cancelled the class. Yet, he chose to teach anyway, despite the ridiculous timezone difference, despite him being tired listening to people's talks in the conference. And perhaps, he did it not only because of the responsibility, perhaps he genuinely enjoys teaching. I wouldn't know. And somehow, knowing the concept that there is one being who knows all of the things anyone do is beautiful. It is beautiful that the uncertainties become certain with the existence of this being.<br>
<br>
We went to Banpo Hangang Park to see the sunset. It was magnificent. Sunset and water are always good combinations. It was reddish, then pink-ish. We were standing on a man-made floating island, staring at the sunset for quite a long time. I felt this thing where I wish I could spend the moment with someone. I remember, several years ago, I told Zahrah, "I never truly feel like I miss anyone in my life, except my family". I didn't understand how someone could miss other people who are not their family, to ache for missing a person. And now I understand how it feels, and it is beautiful.