---
layout: post
title: "kneeling"
date: 2026-05-28
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I have been trying to contain myself. I still vividly remember how I moved from one chair to another in the lab, while reading a letter over and over, sobbing. I haven't cried this much since I don't know, I don't even remember. My schedule is so tight, I write a block for resting. Only not to rest, but to not dismiss my emotions. I can't even have a proper heartbreak. To cry, to shout, to finish a bucket of ice cream, to watch sad-ending scenes, to be with mom, to cry over sujud repeatedly. Though I did the last one *a lot*, before my period arrives. This time somehow my period hurts less, miraculously, and little did I know that fasting helps my menstrual cramps, significantly.<br>
<br>
It feels more tragic now that October 13 would remind me of him, especially this year. It isn't a special day to begin with, and now it will be a heartbreak anniversarry. I guess adulting is realizing that it is what it is.<br>
<br>
It was the day of Arafah. Alya reminded us to not pass this day like any other days. That night, I asked Him, on my wet pillow, "O Allah, I don't know what to ask, really. I know that You know what's best. I know that You wants everything good for me. I know that. But this is hard, it is very hard, so help me pass through this".<br>
<br>
I know that my life is already full, I was offering him the capacity I have to share my life, my attention, my love. And I can't see beyond him, especially not in these past five years. Although, I did have crushes. And he made it even more impossible with the standards. The care, patience, gentleness, honesty, sincerity, intellectual exchange. I wasn't even hoping to spend a life with others. Not when I see how hard it is for people to get past the castle gate, and to accept me.<br>
<br>
And yet, I still function. Somehow I am amazed, at how hard I have trained myself to be resilient.<br>
<br>
"O Allah, O Allah, O Allah", my mouth was calling, my chest was deeply hurt, my eyes couldn't stop shedding tears, "I really don't know what I want to ask".