---
layout: post
title: "loving"
date: 2026-06-02
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


It has been a week. I have been angry, devastated, depressed. Yet, everything that remains is love. I have loved, deeply. The love I did not know I have the capacity for. The kind of love I have never experienced before.<br>
<br>
I am grateful that it is you.<br>
<br>
I realize that I am still growing, to be someone who brings peace into a loving home. I realize that I am not that person yet. They said that marriage amplifies things. I realize that my history still occupies a huge part of how I live, in which, if I am truly healed, it shouldn't be this much.<br>
<br>
I realize that I haven't been able to bring you the kind of consistent peace everyone is talking about. Like you said, we should be a better person for the people we love. And perhaps, someday, my motivation will turn towards becoming a good person for the people I love. Perhaps, it will not be just for surviving. Perhaps, I will be where you are.<br>
<br>
Perhaps, someday, I could believe that love is not a fragile concept anymore. And perhaps, I could finally see the kind of love as strong as The Prophet's affection towards Khadija.<br>
<br>
I want to gently push back when you said that you are not someone I am looking for, you are. I was disappointed that you did not see it. You should have given more credits to your own self, for the way you loved me. I still remember the way you changed your LINE bio to Frank Sinatra's *"Fly Me to the Moon"*, the way you put my bag on your shoulder that day in Changi, the way you placed the tiny Iron Man figure on your desk, the way you told Alya not to pressure me, I remember everything.<br>
<br>
I am sorry I did not ask about your insecurities. I thought it was not something concerning. I thought it was not related to how you feel about faith. I sincerely did not know that. When people say about insecurities, most of the time they bring my achievements or my education level or anything I do not think you need to feel insecure about. I am truly sorry, I should have asked, I should not leave you midway through your thoughts just to sleep.<br>
<br>
If you are still searching, and if God truly exists, I believe He would want you to find Him, that He would make it easy for you. Do not believe my interpretation about Islam, I might be wrong, most of the time I am. Examine it, test it, prove it, ask the scholars about it. Because, certainly, this religion is for people who think. I love you because you are someone who thinks deeply, someone who loves gently. I am sorry I did not say it when you needed to hear it the most. I really hate myself for hurting you the way I did.<br>
<br>
And if you do find Him, my love, let Him enter your heart the way I let you enter mine, the way you let me enter yours.<br>
<br>
I wish you happiness more than us being together, I wish you find someone who makes you feel the kind of peace they are talking about, even though that person is not me. Thank you for saying it to me, I am saying it to you now in return. I did not understand how hard it must have been for you to say that.<br> 
<br>
Thank you for coming into my life. Oh my love, I love you, and it is the best birthday gifts I have ever received.<br>
<br>
While you may never read this, I hope my chest will feel less heavy tomorrow morning when I wake up.<br>
