---
layout: post
title: "the last thread of hope"
date: 2026-07-16
author: "Maryam Medina"
categories: memento
---


I randomly opened the Qur'an, the one translated by M. A. S. Abdel Haleem, after my prayer. It was surah Fatir (i.e. The Creator). I read the first few ayah, and see whether it answers some of the questions I have been dealing with. In the second ayah, it says, *"No one can withhold the blessing God opens up for people, nor can anyone but Him release whatever He withholds: He has the power to decide"*.<br>
<br>
I think the first time I truly did my surrender was in 2024. I felt like I was in the brink of a collapse. I was deciding a huge leap of my life without a solid plan. I discontinued the safety net I had, the government scholarship extension for the PhD program, in an attempt to move out from the country and find better opportunities. For some people, the decision might seem insignificant. For me, it was as if I was standing on a cliff, ready to jump, without knowing how to swim.<br>
<br>
As an only child, I grew up quite comfortably, my parents always prioritize me above anything else. They had a good business, both of them worked very hard and were good at their jobs. During my childhood, Dad resided in another island to become a merchant and build his business. Mom and I would go to see him off in the bus station. The bus would take him to another island in several days. Meanwhile, Mom would go back and forth to the market supplier with the old motorbike she had. She would disappear from sight because of the huge pile of clothes that filled the motorbike rack. I would stay at home with my grandparents, and cry whenever she left. Grandma would then make me a glass of milk for reassurance. Back then, I would drink milk twice a day, without knowing how much those milk cost in sweats. No wonder I am a 162 cm tall Southeast Asian gal.<br>
<br>
Their sales dipped as modernization took over. It was around the time I entered university. My parents wanted the best education I could get, but they were not sure whether they could support me. I was very influenced by B. J. Habibie and my German teacher during high school. I was thinking to study while working, but the dream vanished when we knew that I needed to have 80 million rupiahs in my account, which is fair. I tried to apply for a Turkish scholarship and passed the round, but I missed the interview schedule because I didn't check my email, which is unfortunate. There was this huge scholarship banner in the school library where I used to spend my time. I received the scholarship and studied in another city. Dad would pay for my rent, with the rest including the tuition fee paid by the scholarship. Looking back, I think it was one of the biggest provisions God has given to our family.<br>
<br>
My master's was quite straightforward as I was accepted to the university where I had my exchange program. At the time, I secured the program even before my bachelor's graduation. For the PhD, though, cutting off the only safety net I thought I had felt like a matter of life and death. If I return to my country, I was not confident that my expertise had somewhere to go. At the same time, my parents are getting older, I need to contribute so that they would not work as hard. I applied several scholarships in other countries, none of them were accepted. I avoided the programs that required a gap year because it means that I would lose time and money within the gap year. I applied the JSPS fellowship after numerous rejections, telling sensei that I would continue my doctoral program here. His face light up, "I am very happy!", he said. I just smiled. It felt like it was the last thread of hope I had. The announcement was in September, a month before my doctoral degree commencement. After my return from the summer break, I genuinely had almost no hope. I told sensei, "I have some saving but if this doesn't go through then I will go home". I knew how selective the JSPS fellowship is, with my application basically said no paper publications.<br>
<br>
There it was, the apology email. I told Mom, I told Zahrah, I lost my hope.<br>
<br>
Perhaps for about one week, I would walk home as fast as I could, open my door, and cry on the floor. I would disappear into the sajdah, and avoid any social gatherings. I wasn't myself, I was the former chairperson of the student organization. "We were afraid to ask", said one of my friends, weeks later after I regained my composure. I laughed and replied, "What are you afraid of?".<br>
<br>
Prior to the PhD program commencement, sensei asked me to apply for the one-year graduate school scholarship. It wasn't much but it was our fallback option. The application was granted, and I was slightly relieved because at least it could support my rent and daily expenses. There was another funding, perhaps the truly last thread of hope we had, the JST fellowship. The application should be done after the rejection from JSPS, which is basically how the committee designed the program. Therefore, the announcement was several weeks after the PhD program started.<br>
<br>
It was such a simple email, a congratulatory message from the committee. Sensei immediately emailed me privately with a dozen of excalamation mark. Of course he did.<br>
<br>
I felt as though a huge weight had been lifted from my shoulders. It felt like a salvation day for the first true surrender I practice as an adult. It was as if God has proven His sign, to never regard provision solely coming from my best efforts. It was also proving His promise when He said that He knows best and I know nothing.<br>
<br>
At the time, I reapplied for the dormitory. I had a very small chance because I have lived there for two years back then, the dormitory is intended for accommodating new students. However, because my status was without scholarship during the commencement of my PhD, the dormitory application was granted. To make it even better, I received both the graduate school scholarship and the JST fellowship in the first year, making the funding even higher than the JSPS fellowship. Moreover, similar to JSPS fellowship, the JST fellowship also offers both a research funding and a study abroad program. I was completely in awe of how everything worked out, and in how God taught me what real surrender means. I am able to do more research, fund conferences, have stronger relationships with past collaborators, stay in a supportive neighborhood, and help my parents. Since then, rejections become an easier pill to swallow as well. I am also less afraid of taking risks and failing.<br>
<br>
All of these won't happen if I didn't take risks, if I stayed in my safety net. Somehow God taught me what the following ayah from surah Ar-Ra'd means, *"Surely, Allah does not change the condition of a people unless they change themselves"*. It is about taking agency, wanting a better circumstance, doing the best I could, and returning the outcome to God. As I grow older, I become more and more accepting of uncertainties, of failures. That life is full of ups and downs, that it is the way we frame hardships and eases, that everything will go back to Earth as dust, that the legacy we leave is in how we care for the world and its inhabitants, that it is the journey and how life is lived, and that the short journey itself matters as much as the destination.<br>
<br>